Unregistered and illegal markets operating in the hinterlands of insurgency ravaged Borno State is one of the challenges the Nigerian Military has had to deal with in its counter-terrorism operations, Francis Okoye writes. Markets are not only a source of economic boost to the Boko Haram terrorists who sell stolen livestock and at the same time buy food stuff for their array of hungry fighters, but a source of shield with civilian population during Military operations. It has been gathered that some of the Boko Haram suicide bombers usually hide among innocent civilians in markets before embarking on their nefarious acts of suicide attacks. No wonder the insurgents frequently infiltrates the city most times through familiar terrains that have markets close to them. An impeccable Military source once narrated how an operation was foiled because of Boko Haram terrorists’ presence in their numbers in such market. The senior military officer revealed that the fighter jet sent to the market based on intelligence report of the Boko Haram terrorists visit to the market was called back to base to avert civilian casualty should the air strike occur. It is no more news that the terrorists are conniving with some locals who, out of selfishness and greed, buy stolen livestock and sometimes smoke fish from Lake Chad water to sell in some of the unpopular markets. Our correspondent reports that at a particular time, a popular cattle market in Maiduguri was shut down on the discovery that stolen animals were allegedly being sold there to finance the insurgent. The terrorists, it was gathered, were using unscrupulous middlemen to sell stolen cattles in the market at the time. Based on this, a civil-military management team was set up to monitor the activities of cattle traders and butchers in order to stop all illegal activities The Borno State governor at the time, Kashim Shettima, in a statement said that all transactions must be vetted and approved by the new team. Shettima, who is now a Senator, ensured that cattle markets in Dusuman, Shuwari and Ngom, were suspended. This is notwithstanding, the insurgency had already forced the closure of other markets in Borno’s capital, Maiduguri. The government also suspended all cattle imports and banned the sale of dry meat. Thousands of cattle and goats were dying from lack of water and food after being locked at the main abattoir in Maiduguri. With government stringent measures, the challenge of illegal trading and illegal markets run by terrorists was almost history. But as the war raged and terrorist’s economic means were strangulated, the insurgents devised the use of some of the unregistered markets in the areas liberated by the military and left without human population, to trade their stolen wares. According to a leader of vigilante in Borno State who spoke on the condition of anonymity, the Boko Haram terrorists have devised several ways of getting logistics through markets. According to him, what they do is to employ the services of men in the bush, who go to the markets in strategic villages like the Benisheik market, the Jakana market and other markets, such as in Gubio. They then get taxes from these people and since they also have a way of getting food items through the external forces who are supporting the terrorists in getting logistics to sustain the ongoing war, they do so too. “The Nigerian Military under the sector (3) recently raided a market in Guzaumala in northern Borno and arrested many persons suspected to be terrorists being profiled at a military facility. “This was done through an intelligence report that the market is meant for Boko Haram to transport their goods and services, “ the source said. He stressed that the insurgency has lasted this while because of support from locals who often times, keep food items for the insurgents. He recalled that in recent time, the military banned activities of some humanitarian organisations believed to be funding Boko Haram, and a few weeks after the ban, a lot of Boko Haram terrorists surrendered in Gwoza and so many other areas. “In Baga, Boko Haram terrorists were using fishermen to fund their activities.  And what they normally do is to ask the fishermen to pay certain amount before they are allowed to go fishing,” he said. As for Alhaji Ahmed Ashemi, the sole administrator, Borno State Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (BOCCIMA) there is possibility of the existence of such illegal markets, especially in the areas where there is no military presence. Ashemi called for the clamping down of such markets and urged the military to always ensure that wherever has been liberated should be protected in addition to return of civil life there. “Wherever military has liberated, they should allow civil life to return there. Some of the reasons these illegal markets operate is because some of the places the military has liberated has not been opened. “For example, if Baga is liberated and the insurgents have been driven out of the place, the fishermen and the farmers should be asked to go back and start their lives. And then, the military gives them proper protection to continue their business. These are some of the things that will discourage civilians from cooperating with insurgents to operate these illegal markets. “I am a civilian and I cannot claim to know some of the military technicalities, but from a civilian point of view, wherever has been liberated, civilians should be allowed to return and do their businesses. “And if you do that and see illegal markets, then you can clamp down on that and warn anybody that if you go to anywhere and open an illegal market, you would be treated like Boko Haram terrorists,” the BOCCIMA Boss said. He noted that the recent closure of borders has brought some relative peace within the borders because now, terrorists are not getting supply of ammunition. “If then there is clampdown on the illegal markets, I believe that it will cripple the terrorists to an extent.” For Muazu Isa, the secretary, Fish Producers and Marketers Association, Borno State Chapter, there could be existence of illegal markets even though according to him, the military needs to join hands with the various market leaders and hold meetings on how markets should be operated in the state. “The military needs to gather the whole market heads and guide them on how markets should be sited. But if the markets are just left like that, the terrorists will definitely go to trade there. Last year we sat down with the former GOC and discussed the way forward for our business and how to curtail Boko Haram infiltration of our trades.” He said during the meeting, the GOC assured them that he will speak with his boss over their matter, adding that when the GOC called them back, he asked them to go back and discuss among themselves after which he will make a way for the running of their fish business. He said since majority of them are Muslims, they resolved to take an oath before the military with the Holy Qur’an that they will never harbour  terrorists in their midst and once a terrorist is sighted, the insurgent will be exposed. Isa said even though that was done, they have not heard from the military, adding that the ban on fish business along Lake Chad and the market in Maiduguri is still on.