The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has been at the forefront of creating inland dry ports across the country to boost exportation of agriculture produce for diversification. YUSUF BABALOLA writes. Before now, shippers anywhere in Nigeria can import and clear their cargoes through the seaports only. Importers from the hinterlands will however, have to be at the seaports in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Onne or Warri to import or export cargoes. But now, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) have brought cargoes closer to the doorstep of importers at the hinterland through the development of Inland dry ports across the six geopolitical zones of the country. But, while one of the dryports has basically started operation, others are at various levels of completion. The IDPs it was gathered, is equivalent to a seaport located in the hinterland to receive containers by rail or road from the seaports for examination and clearance by Nigeria Customs Services (NCS). An IDP has all the loading and off-loading equipment needed to handle containers, general cargoes and at the same time bring shipping services to the doorsteps of shippers’ across the nation as it assists in decongesting the seaports and make them more user-friendly. The IDPs appear numerous enough to stimulate the economic processes, ginger the economy in the hinterland and create robust environment that would accelerate growth. However, while the Kaduna Inland  dryport had started operation, other six dry ports located across the country, Erunmu, Ibadan for South-West; Isiala-Ngwa, Abia, in the South-East; Funtua, Katsina; and Zawachiki, Kano for the north-west. Others are Heipang, Jos, for north-central; and Jauri, Maiduguri for the north-east are at various stages of completion. The facilities were won by Eastgate Inland Container Terminal Ltd for Isiala-Ngwa, Abia State with a capacity of 50,000 twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEU) , while Catamaran Logistics Ltd is to handle a 50,000 TEU Ibadan ICD and Dala Inland Dryport Ltd won a 20,000 TEU facility. Also, Duncan Maritime Services won the 20,000 Jos ICD and Equatorial Marine Nigeria Ltd, Funtua won the 10,000 Container Freight station, while Migfo Nigeria Ltd won the 10,000 Maiduguri container freight station. The dry port it was gathered would boost the country’s export capacity by over $50 billion yearly as it would provide an easy process for the exportation of beans, ginger, hibiscus, onions, potatoes and other agricultural produce worth about $50 billion from the northern part of the country. Though, some of the dry ports are still at different stages of completion, the executive secretary of the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Barr. Hassan Bello, has raised the hope of Nigerians on the completion of the dry ports especially the Funtua and Jos dry ports which he said would  come on stream by January 2020. The Jos and Funtua dry ports which are estimated at about N16.7 billion when completed, like its Kaduna counterpart, would contribute immensely to the economy of the northern Nigeria through agricultural exports abroad. For instance, the concessionaire of the Funtua Port had earlier said over $20 million (N7.2 billion) would be needed to get the port operational within a year, while the operator of the Jos Port said the project would gulp about N9.5 billion and that work at the site has reached advanced stage. President Muhammadu Buhari, has emphasised the impact of dry ports to the Nigerian economy. Speaking at the inauguration of the Kaduna Inland dry port, he noted that dryports would accelerate the implementation of the federal government’s economic diversification agenda. He further stressed that dry ports provide importers and exporters in the hinterland the opportunity to ship and clear cargo with ease without travelling to Lagos. This, he said, would largely reduce the cost of transportation and cost of doing business, and eliminate the congestion and traffic gridlock at Lagos ports. The president also acknowledged the inputs of the Shippers’ Council to economic recovery, and expressed the hope that the six other inland depots at various stages of construction would be completed in earnest. Also, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said the inland dry ports project is targeted at alleviating the challenges of shipping in the hinterland, adding that it would facilitate the movement of cargoes to boost the economy, generate employment opportunities, and buoy the earnings of the states they were located. “Not only will this create employment, it will also facilitate importation and solve the problem of importers and exporters who are far away from the seaports. It will improve the ease of doing business, promote agricultural produce and reduce over dependence on oil,” he said. On his own part, the Shippers Council boss, said they have given the concessionaires timeline for the completion of the projects. Bello said, “We have up till December to bring on board Funtua and Jos dry ports. Two weeks ago, we had meetings with them, and we gave them the timeline for us to work so we see things are done.” Bello noted that a lot of progress was being made at the Kaduna dry port, adding that the issue remains the slow movement of containers from the seaports to the dry ports through rail. He said, “I’m worried about the capacity of the railway. Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) now takes containers from Lagos to Kaduna, where they are examined. Of course, because it is a narrow gauge, we are worried about the speed, which is 60KPH – that is the average. “I’m also worried about derailment. We need frequency and certainty so that we can schedule that in every two days, it will take about 40 containers. They are overwhelmed in Kaduna. Many shippers have come, companies like Nokako in Kaduna, Orland Farms. They want to use Kaduna, but for the capacity of the rail.” He however, assured that every agency of government has shown commitment to the success of the dry port, adding that Kaduna is witnessing a lot of export growth because of the dry port. He said, “Export has grown in Kaduna. Cow horn, ginger, and hibiscus are being exported through Kaduna. So what Shippers’ Council is trying to do is to acquire the land adjacent to the Kaduna dry port so that we have it for processing. “We don’t want these raw materials to be exported. We want ginger to be processed and packaged so that there will be value addition. This will mean employment for people. We want Zobo to be processed and packaged. We have been working with the ministry of finance to have a pre-inspection agency so that when we do, immediately this is done, the ship is waiting because of schedules and train will take these things. “This will create more exports to be done; Kaduna will be a success story, especially with the rail coming on board. And then, we are looking at Kano, which unfortunately has not been able to do anything. But we are into it. The moment we do that, we will decongest the seaports, and we bring shipping closer to the people, and we grow the economies where these dry ports are sited. “I’m happy with what is happening in Kaduna, I’m happy with the regulators – Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria Customs Service, and many others who recognised Kaduna and they are doing business there,” he concluded.