Nigerians have been urged not to be daunted in their quest for a better tomorrow as President Muhammadu Buhari has only come to make the country better. The special adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adeshina, who said this yesterday, maintained that President Buhari had come to make Nigeria “a country of our dreams.” This is as President Buhari promised a better security apparatus for the Gulf of Guinea, even as he called on fellow leaders in the region to join hands in securing it. Adesina gave the words of exultation shortly after receiving the “Man of Integrity Award on behalf of the President at the Leadership Excellence Awards 2019 organised by Igberre Television, an online medium in Abuja. The presidential spokesman, therefore, urged Nigerians to emulate the exemplary leadership style of the President by placing high premium on national interest in their undertakings. “Let’s put Nigeria first; President Muhammadu Buhari is somebody that doesn’t want anything from the country rather, he has come to give everything to the country. “So, let all Nigerians emulate that; let’s put the country before everything. When we all do that, we’ll find out that the country of our dreams will come faster than we can imagine,’’ he said. On his part, the executive director of Igberre TV and the host, Mr James Emeh, said the essence of the award was to give rewards to good leaders in different spheres of human endeavour. “Leadership Excellence Awards organised by Igberre TV is an event that we want to use to promote good leadership and contribute to the development of the country. “We believe if we celebrate those who have done well, others will want to follow the same path of excellence. “The national interest should always rise above personal interest in whatever we do, and that way the country will move faster, develop faster than we are today,” he said. Other recipients of awards at the event, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), are Senate President Ahmed Lawan, former President Goodluck Jonathan, former Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and the minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Godswill Akpabio. Others were minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi; former Imo governor Sen. Rochas Okorocha; acting EFCC chairman, Mr Ibrahim Magu and Rep Nkeiruka Onyejeocha among others. Absolute Security In The Gulf Of Guinea President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, said that leaders of neighbouring countries would work together and provide all necessary assistance to secure the Gulf of Guinea. He said this while speaking at a bilateral meeting with President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo of Equatorial Guinea, on the sideline of the 2019 Gas Summit. President Buhari in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu, expressed concern on the rate of piracy, kidnapping and smuggling in the Gulf of Guinea, calling for more concerted efforts to end the tide of illegality. “Our neighbourhood is very strong. Our Navy is doing a good job. We are going to give them equipment and make them more competent. We share the oil fields and so much in common. We will secure the Gulf absolutely,” President Buhari said. In agreement with Nguema, who hosted of the summit, President Buhari said that Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea would provide joint patrols, adding that it would be “more cost effective when we work together. We have to jointly protect ourselves.” The President also held another meeting with the Secretary General of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Sanusi Barkindo, where he was briefed on an important upcoming assembly of the body in December. The OPEC meeting will decide on the sharing output production quota, as the current agreement binding the members will run out in March 2020. President Buhari said that he would secure the best possible deal for the country at the meeting.