In this report, TUNDE OGUNTOLA and HUSSAINI HAMMANGABDO examine the hardship experienced by farmers and residents hit by flooding in Adamawa and Nasarawa states A farmer, Hamza Mohammed, 43, in Bilachi village in Demsa local government area of Adamawa State cut a pathetic figure, looking unkempt and worried. He explained to LEADERSHIP Weekend that life had been very miserable for him and his family. Mohammed said that he was left with the cloth he was putting on as flood had swept away his house and submerged his farmlands. He explained that while he hoped for a bumper harvest the flood submerged his farm and livelihood. He said, ‘’I had started harvesting already and was planning to take my crops to the rice mill before the rain and the subsequent flood started. I escaped death by the whiskers as I  tried to protect some of my crops. ‘’My rice and maize farmlands were completely washed away. Many members of my community have become refugees and are putting up with family and friends in neighbouring villages. We are surviving on support from our relatives in the neighbouring village. This is very sad for us. Some of us took loans to farm. We are highly indebted and confused.’’ Another victim of the flood Joshua Yamai, 30, a resident of Morro village in Demsa local government while narrating his experience to LEADERSHIP Weekend said the flood had caused an irreparable loss and hardship to his family as they most of the time sleep hungry or beg for food. According to him, “We were already harvesting our farm produce before the flood commenced. As you can see, we are also homeless, we need shelter. We need urgent help from Nigerians, state and federal governments. To get food to eat is also a problem. I slept hungry last night to ensure that my family got something to eat. Anď as you can see, our children have all fallen ill.” The impacts of flooding have increasingly assumed from significant to threatening proportions, resulting in loss of lives and properties in Adamawa State. Though officially detailed statistics are not available regarding the losses sustained by the flood victims in the state, LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that at least more than 141 communities were hit by the floods that swept through various parts of Adamawa in October and about 350,000 people are currently displaced, according to officials. It is obvious from the available record that irreparable havocs have been sustained by Adamawa residents due to what has become a perennial natural disaster in the state. Apart from houses that collapsed by flooding, school buildings and bridges also collapsed in this flash flood. Market places and farmlands were also submerged for weeks and sometimes they were washed away. Hence, flooding in the state needs to be assessed. Dramatic images of the impact of floodwater on the life of residents in the affected communities have been publicised on various conventional and non-conventional news platforms. Traffic, vehicular movement, healthcare services, schools, and power supply had been disrupted in both states. Nasarawa state residents have experienced similar ordeal just like their Adamawa neighbours, as heavy rain in Lafia local government area of the state killed no fewer than three persons. The victims, two women and a teenage boy, were said to be returning from a vigil before they got drowned in the Amba River located along Kilema Road, Lafia. The three persons died as a result of an overflow of the river following the downpour which lasted hours. Shortly after the incident, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa visited the area and promised to tackle the environmental challenges in the state. Also, many residents of Ado, Gwandara community, in the Karu local government area of Nasarawa State have been rendered homeless, while scores of livestock were swept away after the community was devastated by flooding. When our correspondent visited the area, it was observed that some residents struggled to save their children from drowning, while some youths in the area mobilised to salvage property. In these communities, dreams were shattered and livelihood, farmlands and properties estimated at millions of naira were also reportedly destroyed. However, the devastating nature of the 2019 flood made the majority of the victims to currently seek roofs above their heads in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the State Emergency Agency (SEMA) had established six IDP camps in Yola South and Yola North local governments of the state to carter for the plight of the victims of the flood. The flood in Adamawa state is coming amidst sufferings from multiple effects of farmers/herders’ clashes, kidnappings and Boko Haram insurgent attacks in the state. The state was also still grappling with Cholera outbreak, in four local government areas before the flooding began, with 674 cases, including four deaths, reported since August 23, 2019. Quoting the Adamawa State Emergency Management Agency, executive secretary, Dr. Muhammadu Sulaiman, 7,666 houses were destroyed by the disaster. According to him, 101,929 farmlands in seven local government areas were also destroyed by the flood that affected 173,049 people. He said that the floods resulted from the volume of water in River Benue, adding that those displaced had been camped in nine temporary Internally Displaced Persons camps. “The temporary camps are located in Yola North, Yola South, Girei and Demsa Local Government Areas,” he said. Sulaiman said that the flood destroyed about 60 per cent of rainfed crops in the affected areas, and expressed fear of possible hunger if urgent measures were not taken to avoid famine. The executive secretary appealed to the federal government and other relevant humanitarian agencies to assist the affected communities with relief materials and dry season farming inputs. Rainstorms and flooding affected parts of Adamawa State from 01 August, 2019 leaving seven people dead and dozens of houses damaged in the city of Yola, the state capital, the four days of uninterrupted rain in five local government areas of the state also destroyed valuables estimated in millions of naira. Generally, the affected communities are in dare need of support and help from the torrential rain and flash floods. Some of the dislodged villages in Demsa Local Government are; Mbula, Borong, Dulo Fulani, Bilachi, Morro 1, Morro 2 and Mbumara, Bachure, Kofare, Wurojabe, Damilu and Yolde Pate in Yola North and Yola South LGAs. Others are Tika 1, Tika 2, Kunteri, Kuli, Tassala, and Kulasala. In Fufore, the affected villages include Riko, Faram-Faram, Gurore Ribadu, Tumbi’nde and Dulo Bate. A fisherman and farmer at Dakri community of Gerei, Kawu Sale, 48, also lamented lost all his fishing nets and farmlands to the flood. ‘’I have lost my fishing nets and farmlands to the flood. What I observed is that the flood was more than the rainfall. We are calling on government and Nigerians of goodwill to assist us,’’ he said. The executive secretary, Adamawa State Emergency Management Agency (ADSEMA), Dr. Muhammad Sulaiman, confirmed to LEADERSHIP Weekend that over 100 villages in nine local government areas in the state had been displaced by the flood. Sulaiman described the 2019 flood occurrence in the state as the “worst disaster ever experienced in the state”. He called for emergency assistance from the federal government and other humanitarian organisations. According to him, “The current flood situation is the worst so far experienced in the history of the state where about 100 villages in nine council areas have been sacked. In Demsa LGA alone about 36 villages were completely overrun while thousands of farmlands and property completely destroyed. ‘’Earlier in August this year, we lost 15 people, hundreds were internally displaced and thousands of farmlands and domestic animals were lost to the flood. We have been overrun by flood following a torrential downpour. “In Girei Local Government Area on our way to Lavundu village for assessment, we saw how farmers are battling with the flood trying to evacuate what is left of their affected rice and maize.’’ He said the agency in collaboration with the Police Marine had deployed officers to rescue members of some communities trapped by the flood in some remote areas along the banks of River Benue. He said that the agency had so far established about six Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in Yola South and Yola North, adding that more camps will be established in other affected areas. The executive secretary explained that the agency is still on emergency and quick response missions to rescue more trapped communities. “About 28 villages and thousands of farmlands in Mbula chiefdom were completely submerged by the flood. Our people are in a devastating situation and they need urgent government attention to avoid any unnecessary disease outbreak and famine. “We also need emergency relief materials because hundreds of our communities are displaced by the flood and they are currently camped in schools while others are in open areas,” he lamented. He urged the government and other humanitarian organisations to support the flood victims in the camp. Also, the Adamawa/Taraba head of operations of NEMA, Abani Garki said that more than 70 communities in nine local government areas were affected. Abani said, “There is no communication with the management of Lagdo Dam that water was released from Cameroon.’’ The flood resulted from three days of rainfall, which was faulted by residents who contended that the rains which preceded the flood were not as heavy as the flood suggested. The residents said they suspected that water from Lagdo Dam in the Republic of Cameroon caused the flood. The Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) has appealed to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to reschedule its loan repayment plan for rice farmers in Adamawa, following recent flooding which ravaged rice farms in the state. They said the appeal became necessary because many of the rice farmers were beneficiaries of the CBN Anchor Borrowers’ scheme and were expected to repay their loan soon. The association made its position known, through state chairman of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Hon. Stephen Maduwa, said, 3,555 farms belonging to the members of the association, were submerged by the current flood, amounting to 50,000 hectares of farmland, affected in nine local government area worst hit by the flood in the state. The state’s RIFAN chairman said the state chapter has urged the federal government to wade into the situation to wave away Anchor Borrowers Loan to augment loses encounter by the flood. Maduwa said the flood which was rated as the worst in the last 10-years, virtually destroyed everything including farm produce, houses, and animals in Numan, Demsa, Gukuk, Shelleng, Fufore, Yola South, Yola North, Lamurde and Guyuk LGAs of the state. He appealed to the federal government to come to the aid of the affected victims of the flood by waving away, Anchor Borrowers loan acquired which was used by the members of the association, for this year’s cropping season. He noted that repayment of the loan is going be a huge challenge for members of the association, after losing everything to this year’s flood. According to him, the state chapter of RIFAN had written a formal complaint to the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Company (NAIC), for intervention, given the quantum of damages caused by the flood. The members of the association at an emergency meeting held in Yola also urged the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), to supports the victims, as their means of livelihood had been completely devastated leaving them at the mercy of God. According to him, “This year’s flood had destroyed 3,555 farms lands in over 50,000 hectares of land submerged. RIFAN members are appealing to the federal government to wave away Anchor Borrower’s loan used for the 2019 rice farming in the state. The flood virtually destroyed everything, going by the level of destruction of this year’s damages. “We have complained to NAIC for insurance cover, as the quantum damages on members are too much on my members. Animals and houses were also submerged making life unbearable for members of RIFAN in the state.’’ He assured that the present trend would not deter members of the association, from keying into rice farming for agricultural diversification of the federal government. “There is an understanding between farmers/herders in the state and relative peace, we hope for bumper harvest in 2020 cropping season, he added. He said the farmers were looking forward to a bumper harvest before the flooding wreaked havoc on the farms. “It is a great loss to farmers and the loan repayment is going to be a serious issue; that is why we are calling on CBN for a consideration,” Maduwa said. Also, the deputy governor of Adamawa State, Chief Crowther Seth, has called for the intervention of the Federal Government over perennial flooding in communities across the metropolitan capital city, Yola. A repeat of the flooding on Thursday destroyed buildings, household items, businesses, and other valuable belongings, and took lives, which an agency of the state government has confirmed to be seven in number. The deputy governor, on a visit to some of the affected communities, said the losses were heavy and the state government could not bear them with the affected people alone, nor solve ecological problems behind the perennial flooding. He said, “Adamawa State Government cannot do it alone. We have the issue of IDPs. We have the issue of Boko Haram and herdsmen and farmers. So, we cannot do it alone. We appeal to the federal government to come to our aid as soon as possible.” The secretary, Adamawa branch of the National Association of Dry Season and Perishable Farmers and Dealers, Idris Dasin, said the flood had affected their members seriously. Dasin pointed out that, over 90 per cent of all dry season and perishable farm products including onion, tomatoes, pepper, rice, and maize along the banks of river Benue were damaged. “The current flood has affected about 7,000 of our members and the affected areas used to produced 70 per cent of all perishable commodities as well as rice and maize in the state. “We are calling for quick interventions from concerned from donor agencies and government agencies and related humanitarian organisations. “There will be the possibility of food insecurity in the state if necessary, actions are not taken,” Dasin added. He said the water is still overflowing some places that were not even close to the riverine areas and called for urgent help. Flooding has affected several states in the country over the last few months, just as wide areas of the country’s northeast were hit by flooding.