Primate Ade Ademisokun-Turton, aka “Onibode”, is the president of the Ondo State Unification of Leaders of Cherubim and Seraphim Church and founder of Success Gate C&S Christ’s Church International with headquarters in Akure. He speaks with TOPE FAYEHUN on the church founder’s day anniversary, leadership challenges and other national issues Primate Ade Ademisokun-Turton, aka “Onibode”, is the president of the Ondo State Unification of Leaders of Cherubim and Seraphim Church and founder of Success Gate C&S Christ’s Church International with headquarters in Akure. He speaks with TOPE FAYEHUN on the church founder’s day anniversary, leadership challenges and other national issues Over the years, what have you been able to achieve? Part of our numerous achievements is the unification of the Cherubim and Seraphim Church across the country. The neatness of the church, the speaking in one voice of the genuinely anointed, the building of an edifice at Ilekun in Akure. In those days, everybody was a kingdom or authority to themselves. Now, we have a guiding principle. There is now check and balance in the church. We are fully registered as a unification. I am not talking about the registration of conference. In the past, one or two churches can form a conference and that one could be registered. But now we have a genuine registration with Corporate Affairs Commission that takes care of all Cherubim and Seraphim all over the world. Now, we have proper training. Some people behave the way they were brought up. Fetish people train a fetish people and those ones also re-train other persons. At a stage, they said noting is wrong about being fetish. But now, we’ve been able to show them the difference. We show them how living in the past can’t be for Christ. All those things that have gone in Old Testament can’t be for Christ. Some of them who have been benefiting from that kind of rules asked questions that what are they going to be eating? And the answer to that question really helped us. We made them to realise that if you are genuinely called, God will feed you. And if you are finding it difficult, take it to God. That is why the issue of calling is more superior to going into Bible seminary or theology schools. Those are little ones we have been able to achieve. A lot of people are in training as we are talking. Success Gate is the church that is celebrating 35th anniversary now and not unification. But we have those who are from other churches receiving training in our church now. When we train them, we allow them to go back into their respective churches. And this is impacting positively. What is Church doing on moral rectitude? We all know that many of the people that perpetrate corrupt practices are Christians. What is church doing to correct that? I don’t know where you get you statistics from that many of the people who are doing corrupt practices are from the Church. I don’t think that is correct. But corrupt practices are now everywhere and if not for Church, Nigeria would not have being in existence by now. Many people would have committed suicide if not for the Church. It keeps on giving them hope. These people you are referring are not responsible Christians. Anybody can be a Christian by birth. To go to church does not mean you are a follower of Christ. So, don’t let us mix it up. Because the government has failed in its responsibility, people now turn to God. The language of the Bible is very clear. The Bible says, seek ye the kingdom of God first, all other things will be added. God himself does not love poverty because poverty is a punishment, if the Bible is to be interpreted correctly. But people now want riches before they serve God. Those people you’re referring to are coming to church to come and play politics by encouraging the pastor to help them talk to the congregation to vote for them. Secondly, the Bible is clear about this; that at a time people would not want to hear the real gospel but will now gather teacher for themselves to listen only to what they want to hear. That is what we are seeing now. So, when they come around to come and do their thanksgiving from the proceeds of fraud, you will still see genuine men of God putting them on their toes. That is why you don’t find many of these people with good preachers and good preachers don’t harbour or accommodate them. They know where to go. They concentrated on where they normally go. They are worldly people with their worldly pastors . We can’t allow that in our church here. If you tithe surprisingly here, we will question you. We will want to know the source, because we try to do what we preach here. For that is happening in another church, does not suggest that it is allowed in all the churches. How can this attitude be checked? It is very simple. Let Bible Society be what a COREN is to an engineer, NBA to lawyers, NUJ to journalists or what NMA is to a doctor. That is what they should be now. Since we are using one Bible, there should be a regulatory body; not government regulatory body. Since you said your church is a Christ church and mine is a Christ church and both is us are reading Bible, we should come together are agree on doctoring of that Bible. For those who are going out of the doctoring of the Christ, let there be sanction. We should know what is Jesus’ teaching on money and dressing. See how women dress to church now. Even wives of pastors now cover their laps with handkerchief when they sit in the church. Some of them have turned church to a modern disco. Because we are in secular state, where we have freedom of worship does not mean that we are not entitled to a kind of regulation; not government regulation that will now be skewed. Let all the registered churches come together. When we sit down , I want to see that Bishop who will support that kind of dress. Within a space of five years, all these nonsense will stop. What is currently going on is that we are giving the enemy of gospel the opportunity to castigate the church. Over the years , it is clear that troublesome pastors are always popular. On the side of the government, it is simple. Just lead by example. When you are not corrupt, your followers will not be corrupt. Presently in Nigeria, there is no reward for hard work. If there is, there will be contentment in the country. Corruption is going on here and there in the country. If we want to correct this, let us correct the system by devolution of powers. If we concentrate power into the hands of an individual, there will always be problem. The Nigeria Senate is proposing a regulation on social media and hate speech. What is your take on this? A hungry man is an angry man. How can you say people should not talk when there is injustice in the land? In Nigeria, you see governors owing workers over one year salaries and you expect them not to talk? You are feeding your own dog and human beings cannot feed! This is a means to silent people when government failed and do not know what to do next. In the Bible, that is what we called “Operation Jeroboam”. Jeroboam instead of giving people a good government made a decree. People said, give us good government and we will serve you. Then he said they gave him hate speech and said he would deal with them ruthlessly. But he failed. They might have forgotten. Let them sign it into law, it may be an answer to Nigerians’ prayers. Because it is going to be the same politicians that will first go to jail. They are looking for their own trouble because the commoner cannot do anything and God will want to use politician to answer their prayers. It is a way of destroying themselves. I don’t know how it occurred to anybody that there is something like hate speech in this country where you will see that somebody is a multi-billionaire and he has not worked anywhere other than being a representative of the people. In Nigeria, being a governor for eight years, you will be richer than your state. So, if I complain, you will say it is hate speech? This is most unacceptable. Many people think that the challenges the country is facing is leadership or followership problem. What is your take on this? It is not followership problem. When the system work, you will see patriotism at work. The same people we are trying to condemn here are the people behind other nations’ economy. And they are doing well. Why are they succeeding elsewhere? It is not the problem of followers. Here in Nigeria, systems don’t work. Individuals are more empowered than the system.