Earlier this week, women from all walks of life gathered in Abuja to celebrate those who have impacted positively on others, giving their life a meaning. JOY YESUFU witnessed the event and writes. The Voice of Women (VOW) conference and award is an annual event of Women and the Voice of Women Foundation (VWF) where  key stakeholders are brought together to reflect, deliberate and re-strategise a compressive action plan that will advance the Women Agenda Project in Nigeria . This year’s theme “Women Elevate Nigeria” aims to recognise progress made so far by the Nigerian woman, examine the gaps  so as to be properly positioned for the future. In her welcome address, the chief executive officer of Women Radio, Toun Okewale-Sonaiya said the Nigerian woman is still in a critical state in 2019 in light of how infamous the year 2019 has been for them. She said it has been ‘one hell of a rollercoaster’, from revelations of sex-for-grades, to Sex-for-food in IDP camps, to sex-for-salvation. She also said 2019 will be remembered as the year Nigerian women and girls collectively started speaking above a whispers , challenging the culture of silence and the institutionalised commodification of our body as a means to an end throughout our life time (from birth to death). Sonaiya expressed joy that the Lagos state government has a a gender based violence prohibition law which proscribe a 3 years jail term for offenders saying that “we are seeking the full wrath of the law”. She commended the states in Nigeria with a gender based violence prohibition law and the pioneering work of Ekiti State and Lagos State In opening the first sex offenders register in 2014, and the recent effort at operationalising a national register by Rule of law and Anti-corruption (ROLAC) organidation . She urged the National Assembly to pass the law. According to her, “For us at the Women Radio and the Voice of Women Foundation, we understand how class structures means women are affected differently by the various gender based vices, but for us it is important that whatever we do cut to the very roots of the average women in Nigeria. “We want Nigeria to work for more Women like Aisha, who without any formal education, privileges or social safety Net was able to become one of the leading local manufacturers of women shoes in Nigeria. We want it to work for more women like Senator Abiodun Olujimi, who emerged victorious at the appeal court, inspiring hope that indeed the Court is the last hope of the common man” she added. In his address, chairman, Women Radio 91.7, Dr Babatunde Okewale said an important starting point to overcome discrimination against women in Nigeria is the right to equal opportunity and treatment in respect of employment . For him, “the key to the success of equality is the active involvement and dialogue between us all. “ He said millions of  women around the world are denied access to jobs and trainings, confined to certain occupations or offered lower pay because of their gender. He noted that the discrimination women face in the labor market makes them highly vulnerable to exploitations and abuses. “Discrimination is often subtle, undermining one’s dignity and future. Discrimination deprives a woman and the girl of her voice and the ability to fully participate as well as stifles opportunities. Discrimination is the basis for social exclusion and poverty” he said. Okewale further stressed that gender equality and opportunity focus on issues related to equal opportunities and treatment for all women and men, hence, the need to eliminate discrimination  but embrace the culture of promoting more inclusion. He said every conversation and dialogue on women should be critically put on the front burner with a focus on issues that are recognised as obstacles for women including unequal pay and unequal distribution at leadership levels. “We must bring the attention of women to their role to help develop and elevate Nigeria through every opportunities presented to them to use the Nigerian resources both human and material for the development of our dear nation” he said. Earlier while setting the agenda for the event, the chief executive officer of the Nigerian Trust Fund, Ms Mufiliat Fijabi said the major aim of the VOW conference and award is to advance women ‘s right and reward leaders of change who have reached new heights and realised the direct positive impact women’s leadership has in every community and in the world today. Fijabi said this conference also inspires and supports women from different part of the country to rise and challenge all barriers limiting the potentials of all women and girls not just in Nigeria but a cross the globe. She buttressed that  the Nigerian woman today is faced with national issues of kidnapping, feminisation of poverty, absence of women in leadership both appointive and selective, hate speeches, exclusion due to physical disabilities, justification for perpetrating violence, absence of sufficient laws to protect women’s right, prevalence of patriarchy and every other form of gender based discrimination. “In particular, the incremental incidence of violence against women and girls has greatly increased recorded percentages of human rights violations in Nigeria. According to International Bank for Reconstruction and Development report of September 2019, Gender Based Violence (GBV) or Violence Against Women and Girls is a global pandemic that affects one in three women in their lifetime. “This widespread violence also causes economic and developmental problems that remain invisible in most debates”. In her address, wife of the President, Aisha Buhari said there is the need for political parties to dedicate certain percentage to women in governance as the role of women in nation building cannot be over emphasied. She urged Nigerian women to make on the percentages they want to their political parties before participating in any election. High point of the occasion was the presentation of Woman of the Year award to Mr President’s wife, Mrs Aisha  Buhari for being a relentless advocate and voice for the rights of women and girls, for maternal health and family planning and for being at the fore front campaigning for women and girl child education. Other awards  include; life time achievement to late Dr Stella Adadevoh, for paying the ultimate price in containing Ebola out break in Nigeria, lifetime achievement to Allen Onyeama, chairman Air peace for single handedly evacuating Nigerians from South Africa  following xenophobic attack and social innovation award to Esther Ijewere for using social media to advocate women issues.