The chief executive officer of Belujane Konzult, Chris Aligbe has faulted the idea of using Nigeria’s oldest airline Aero Contractors and another domestic airline, Arik Air as the national carrier. Aligbe, an aviation consultant lamented that  the idea of merging two airlines which the proponents have acknowledged  “are not doing well” to form a new national carrier was fraught with so many intractable challenges that would make the product a disaster ab initio. The aviation expert made his position known yesterday, following the recent proposal by the CEO of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Ahmed Kuru, to the national assembly that the Minister of Aviation should merge Arik and Aero and use them to float a national carrier rather than starting a brand new one, which has been on the works for the last four years. According to him, before now, the challenge was that many stakeholders were not convinced of the need for a new national carrier, adding that “But stark realities of our national losses in terms of humongous capital flight of over US$1.3billion annually on ticket sales alone by foreign airlines as well as the fact that countries like Uganda, Tanzania and Ghana, even Republic of Benin are set with the floatation of their national carriers with varying degrees of government equities have undermined the position of some stakeholders who hitherto argued that national carriers are now out of fashion.” Aligbe added that this, coupled with the fact that the collective operational strength and effort of the nation’s  domestic airlines has proven grossly inadequate, albeit, unable to provide any anchor for redemptive hope. Aligbe pointed out that as at today virtually the entire industry and, indeed, the vast majority of stakeholders are either clamouring for or desirous of a befitting national carrier. “At least now, after many years of cacophony of clanging ideas, we have moved a step or two forward towards the quest for redemptive action in the airline sub-sector. We are no longer arguing whether or not, but rather, what will be the nature of the desired national carrier. Even AMCON, whose authorities did not support the idea when it acquired Aero and Arik, today, wants to key into the idea, though to achieve a corporate, rather than national motive”, Aligbe stated. On the status of Arik, he said there are still a few who believe that Aero and Arik are airlines that belong to the government. He however, disclosed that such belief is not true and that If they were, they would be under Aviation not AMCON that has no statutory responsibility on aviation but rather on debt recovery. “Any attempt to move outside this statute will occasion international litigations that could be unresolved for many years. This is because both the original owners and creditors will head to court to challenge the Federal Government,” Aligbe warned. Aligbe said that in the entire three-year period of due process, Arik and Aero were never in consideration, stressing that AMCON’s proposal is therefore, an unnecessary distraction at best and, at worst, an uncanny step to truncate the Nigeria Air Project. On Aero, Aligbe suggested that the airline required a complete turnaround in every material particular; from Management, equipment, market share/positioning, work culture/morale, operational integrity, rundown facilities, safety standards, declined assets overall and impaired and mutilated vision arising from internal (Ownership-Management) wrangling. Arik on the other hand, he said, was not a candidate for a holistic turnaround. “This is because, although Arik was plagued, like Aero with all the afflictions (external and internal, most cases self-inflicted), ailments that over the decades have been and are still, the bane of airline operations in Nigeria, Arik had great assets, healthy and modern facilities, very young fleet, world standard maintenance and safety records as well as a vision that was not disjointed”, he added. Unlike Aero, Aligbe said that what Arik needed was a laser beam on Management, Corporate governance and work culture that would appropriate all the positives to reverse the negatives, noting that both Captains Roy Ilegbodu and Ado Sanusi are doing their best at Arik and Aero respectively. “Today, AMCON has not publicly rendered any account on that take-over. Yet, it is public funds, albeit, taxpayers’ assets and money. Is it not thought-provoking and informative to us – Aviation Stakeholders – that even at the time Kuru was trying to push its burden of Arik and Aero to Sirika, he was already working with Ernst and Young, CBN and NDIC for the liquidation of AMCON? Kuru in a just-concluded retreat told the House Committee on Banking and Finance just last week that of the 12,743 Eligible Bank Assets (EBAs) AMCON bought over which brought the Banks Net Book Value (NAV) to zero, only 4000 EBAs have been resolved while 8000 remain unresolved. “He further confirmed that 71 of them are under receivership, which no doubt include Arik and Aero as we know. AMCON has only achieved about 31 per cent of its assigned role,” he explained. According to the aviator, it is hoped that if the CBN and NDIC buy over AMCON’s N6.3trillion debt and sell it off internationally at a discounted rate as proposed by Kuru, then Arik and Aero may come fully alive again and become formidable. Aligbe said that the minister of Aviation should ignore Kuru’s advice and move on, stressing that the only and major success of AMCON as an institution has been to give the banks a debt-clean slate. Since CBN and NDIC can do this better, AMCON is an unnecessary and poor duplication. 