President Muhammadu Buhari has disclosed that the federal government will soon commence the construction of the 600-kilometre Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano pipeline to move gas from the southern part to the northern of the country. While addressing the fifth Gas Exporting Countries’ Forum (GECF) Summit, yesterday, at the Sipopo International Conference Hall, Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, Buhari said that the viability of extending the gas pipeline to North Africa was also under consideration. The president, who described the theme of the summit: “Natural gas – energy for sustainable development” as most appropriate, said that the one-day meeting was “taking place at a critical juncture as global energy supply is transitioning from hydrocarbons to renewables.” Buhari, in a statement issued by his senior special assistant on media, Garba Shehu, said that “the Paris Accord of 2015 signalled the first major global commitment to a deliberate effort on this inevitable transition.” He said that Nigeria was proud to be one of the first signatories to the historic agreement. On why Nigeria and GECF members are focusing on gas development, the president said: “We are mindful of the energy deficit in the developing world, especially here in Africa where we have nearly 600 million people without access to modern energy. As responsible leaders, it is our duty to preserve the environment not only for the present but for future generations. “We can achieve this balance between our energy deficit and environmental preservation needs by developing and deploying new technologies. Although classified as fossil fuel, natural gas is a viable solution to both our energy and environmental challenges,” Buhari said. The president further said that natural gas has the added advantage of availability and affordability, stressing that “to fully leverage this potential, nations need to pool resources to put up trans-border and trans-regional energy infrastructure.” But he said that Nigeria has led the way by the construction of the West Africa Gas Pipeline which runs through four West African countries and commended the foresight of the founding fathers of the GECF “in promoting natural gas in the global energy mix.” The host, President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who opened the conference, called on members of the GECF to continue to work in harmony towards the realisation of the objectives of the multinational organisation.