The permanent secretary, Special Duties, Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr. Muhammed Dikwa, said the federal government has saved N594.09 billion from whistle blowing policy since its inception in 2016. Dikwa made the disclosure at a workshop on the overview of whistle blowing policy in Nigeria with the theme: “Implementation of the Whistle Blower Policy in Nigeria, Issues, Challenges and Way Forward,” yesterday in Abuja, according to a statement that was issued from the ministry. The permanent secretary said Nigeria has joined other countries of the world to accept the policy as a global acceptable norm. He further stated that what prompted the introduction of the policy and the need for its legislation was the federal government’s commitment to reducing the cost of governance and bringing wastages and leakages to the barest minimum. Dikwa noted that the federal government decided to introduce the policy in order to fight corruption, and other financial crimes, like violation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA), elimination of ghost workers syndrome, staff collecting double salaries in more than one organisation, retirees without proper records but still collecting salaries, recoveries of salaries from retired diplomats for almost two years to the tune of N192million. Other reasons he listed are to curtail non-remittances by MDAs, amongst other crimes, adding that, the policy has drastically reduced corruption in both civil and criminal cases. On the challenges encountered during the course of implementing the policy, the permanent secretary highlighted the lack of proper legal framework, poor funding, lack of coordination and diverse information among relevant organisations, not following proper channel to give information, adding that, sometimes information given were fake, which however contradicts investigations. Charting the way forward, Dikwa said the whistle blowing and witness protection bill 2019, was being put together to make the policy effective and provide legal backing/administrative guide. He therefore urged the participants to critically review the draft bill and make additional inputs to be forward same to the national assembly for passage and enactment. The permanent secretary said the whistle blowing policy which is a work in progress has come to stay. He urged the participants to work assiduously towards legalising and institutionalising the whistle blowing policy to meet international best practices which other comity of nations have adopted over the years. However, the chairman of the whistle blowing draft committee, Mrs. Peculiar Ohabor, a deputy director in the Federal Ministry of Justice, in her presentation said the draft bill which has 18 bits and 107 sections sprang up as a result of societies evolving, adding that countries like Canada, Senegal, United Kingdom, USA, and European Union had already accepted the policy, stressing the need for Nigeria to legalise and institutionalise it.  