There is no doubt that roads play a very important role in any nation’s infrastructural development. But most Nigerian roads are currently in bad shape and this has and is still leading to negative economic effects, TUNDE OGUNTOLA, PATRICK OCHOGA, ADEBAYO WAHEED, ABU NMODU and RICHARD NDOMA write. Driving in many parts of the country these days, has become a nightmare. Most commuters have to spend longer hours on journeys that would ordinarily have been an hour’s journey because of the deplorable state of the roads from one cardinal point to another. The total economic effects of such bad roads to the nation, the health of the citizens, operation of businesses, the safety of lives and properties is unquantifiable. Although the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS) blames most accidents on these roads to tyre burst and speed violation, the fact is that the state of the road is a huge contributor to the crashes which has led an alarming number of injured and dead road users. An inspection across major highways and some inner-city roads, show that some of the roads have received little attention from the federal and state governments in recent months so much that if commuters were to plant trees in the potholes like its done in the Indian state of Hyderabad, there would be no road at all. The terrible state of most Nigerian roads is worse during raining season. The condition of the roads also makes it almost impossible for transporters to make enough to cater for their needs because what they earn, most of the time, goes into the repairing of their vehicles which have been destroyed by the excessive number of potholes on the road. To make up, these extra monies is added to the fare that passengers are to pay so that fares continue to rise and there is no solution in sight. With the festive season at hand, this is going to be seen played out again like it always is, every year. In Niger state, the state of federal roads is the same as the stories all over Nigeria, the difference is that almost 75 percent of intercity and state roads in the state are federal roads. According to reports, the roads in Niger State are so bad that they caused a total of 147 deaths in 2016 between January and September of that year and injured around 915 persons in 361 road accidents in the state. In 2017, the next year, not fewer than 516 road crashes were recorded on the same roads resulting in 197 deaths. 2018 saw 476 crashes which resulted in the death of 289 road users. To make matters worse, the conditions of these roads now aid the activities of kidnappers and armed robbers who mount their barricade at spots where drivers have to slow down to maneuver in search of better grounds to drive on. They then pounce on the slow cars and with no mercy, carry out their operation smoothly before running back to the bushes which usually line the roads on both sides. A transporter, Ibrahim Abdullahi, while speaking after a trip to Lagos agrees that most federal and state-owned roads are gradually turning into death-traps and hotspot for bandits and kidnappers. ‘‘The potholes are ubiquitous on Nigerian roads but there are gaping holes in the road leading from Benin-Abuja. There are deep gullies on Benin-Warri road, Benin-Asaba road, and Benin-Abuja road. Upon closer inspection, the depths of the holes are posing potentially dangerous consequences for vehicles driving past. It is not uncommon to see some drivers driving dangerously, but the truth is, tyre burst due to bad roads is one of the major reason accidents happen on the high way.’’ Abdullahi said there is need for more cooperation with the highway controllers to avert accidents during the festive period, even though the core mandate of Federal Emergency Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) is road maintenance, and that highway maintenance is very critical to increase productivity and creation of jobs which is the goal of the present administration. ‘‘A journey which ordinarily should take not more than eight hours now takes more than 13 hours. Journey from Benin to Okene through Auchi, for instance, takes up to six hours. The sections of the road that are particularly bad include Okpella, Ekpoma, and Ehor. Sadly, as motorists make effort to avoid the bad spots, as they pass through Okpella community, the locals block the road and demand money before they would allow them passage. Of all the major highways in Edo State, the Bénin-Okenne-Abuja and Benin-Ore-Lagos are the most strategic for travelers across the country. The two roads connect the South-west and the North to the South-south and South-east. There is heavy vehicular traffic on the roads, especially during festive periods. My question is what is the government doing to fix these roads?’’ The situation is the same for commuters that ply the Ibadan-Ife road. Most of them noted that the road, which has no alternative route, is gradually becoming unmotorable. According to them, it is one road which has left many people either badly injured, dispossessed of their valuables or dead, after being in an accident. They especially lamented the brazen manner in which kidnappers and robbers operate on the highway in spite of the heavy presence of security agencies on the road: The kidnapping of a professor of orthopedic surgery and traumatology at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State, Adeyinka Adegbehingbe, along Ajesire and Ikire road in May this year, comes to mind in this case. A tour of the road from Ibadan to Ile-Ife would also reveal a sad story of the bad state of our roads. In the case of this particular one, the highway can be divided into three parts. The first part begins from Iwo Road roundabout to Ife Junction. The second part starts from Ife Junction to Iwaraja, where the dual carriageway stops. The third part is the single lane from Iwaraja to Akure, via Owena. According to a motorist, Gbenga Tanimola, the first two parts have become so dreadful that some private car owners would drive from Lagos to Ibadan and find a safe place to park their cars in Ibadan. Then they would board commercial buses or cars at Iwo Road beside Total Filling Station, opposite Wema Bank, on Ibadan-Ife Road, or at Gbagi to Akure in Ondo State, to bring them to their next destination along that road. Apparently, the deplorable state of the road compels them to take such actions so that their cars would not develop mechanical fault in no man’s land in the middle of the highway. The Ibadan-Ife Junction section, about 76 kilometres stretch, is in the worst state. The lane from Ibadan to Ife Junction is very terrible, while the lane from Ife to Ibadan is a bit better. The old Ibadan-Ife road is not as bad, while by far the most terrible lane is the new one constructed when the road was transformed to dual carriageway some years ago. A commercial bus driver, Olawale Adisa, explained the tactics, both legal and illegal, that they have to imbibe when they use the road. According to him, driving from Iwo Road Roundabout in Ibadan to Gbongan in Osun State, you have to maintain your lane. But from Gbongan to Ife, you have to take the lane that comes from Ife to Ibadan because of the terrible condition of the Ife-bound lane. You will get back to the right lane when you are about getting to Ife Junction. From the Ife Toll Gate to Moro, he said, the state of the road is also very bad and this has forced many motorists, including truck drivers, to take to driving against traffic. A passenger, Tolulope Ajayi said, “It is the same thing when you are coming to Ibadan. The lane to Ibadan is fairly okay, from Obadare’s Church to Osu. But from Osu to Ife Junction, the road is in a bad state. So, drivers usually use the lane that goes to Akure and drives against traffic to Ife Junction. This has caused a lot of road accidents. “If your bus or car bumps into the potholes, the vehicle may develop immediate mechanical faults. Or you may lose your tyre. And by the time you stop to attend to the vehicle, kidnappers may emerge from the bushes and attack your vehicle and rub you of your possessions.” According to a driver, Tiamiyu Ajani, at any of the flashpoints, if a vehicle develops mechanical fault and cannot move, one must leave the place immediately, otherwise, the criminals would attack. “If your vehicle develops any fault in any of those areas, just remove the battery and flee. I have been driving on the road for the last 15 years and have experienced robbers. I have scars on my head. Many commercial drivers have bitter experiences to share,” he added. In Benin, Auchi, Okene highway hundreds of motorists plying the busy road are on a daily basis, left stranded for several hours as a result of a bad portion of the road at Ehor, Uhunmwode local government area of Edo State. The collapsed road occasioned by the bad portion spans over one kilometer at both Auchi and Benin end of the highway, has become a hotspot for criminal elements. And the traffic usually leads to chaos as trucks and other cars struggle to maneuver the bad portions. Commuters sometimes, have to disembark for any vehicle to successfully cross the bad spot. A commuter, Aimalohi Enaifokhe, said the bus she was travelling in got to the spot a little past 6: 00 am one fateful day and had to wait to find a way out of the gridlock. “This is a little past 11:00 am and I have been here since 6:00. I actually left home with the intention of getting to the office on time. Now, I am late already.’’ Abu Isa, a Tanker driver, also narrated his experience on that road saying he was on the spot from 9: 00 and had to wait patiently because it was easier for smaller vehicles to maneuver the bad spot than the articulated ones. For motorists plying the roads in Cross River State, they lamented the deplorable condition of roads across the state and metropolis. It has been gathered that there are over 180 potholes in both Calabar Municipality and Calabar South. These potholes do not only make vehicular movement difficult especially in Calabar South, but it has also made the once beautiful, greenish and serene environment of the metropolis look like an eyesore as dirty and stagnated water is seen taking up space in the potholes on the streets of Calabar. A drive between Ugep, Yakurr local government area of the state via Biase, Akamkpa, and Odukpani to Calabar, is a struggle as motorist strive to navigate through very dangerous potholes in Biase. Upon approaching Calabar from Ugep, Biase, Akamkpa, and Odukpani there are very dangerous potholes around Ikot Ekpo Axis before approaching Tinapa Junction by 8 Miles Junction of Calabar metropolis. The road to the federal secretariat by the Cross River State new Secretariat Calabar, is also endowed with terrible potholes that are responsible for more than three vehicular crashes. Other streets characterised with potholes in the once most cleanest/greenish city in the Nigeria includes Anantiga axis, Ekpo Abasi, (close to the Criss River University of Technology CRUTECH), Jebbs, Edgerly, Mayne Avenue, Yellow Duke, Orok-Orok, Inyang Edem, Asuquo Abasi, Palm Street, Harcourt, Nelson Mandela, Hart Street by Atu and Goldie-Bassey Duke street. Others include Essien street, Vowel and Afokang street which is now inaccessible to motorists. Also, in Calabar municipality, the streets with worst potholes are Queen Duke, Goldie-Watt axis, Mary Slessor (around UNICAL main gate though at present bags of sand had been used to fill the potholes). Other areas that had been characterised with potholes in Calabar municipality includes, Ette Agbor, Eastern Highway ByPAss/UNICAL Hotel Raod, Asari Iso, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan-By Pass, Parliamentary Extension up to 8-Miles, Murtala Highway and some parts of State Housing Estate. A walk around some major streets in the capital city reveals some streets including Jebbs in Calabar South and Ikot-Ishi market area of the metropolis are in a very sorry state causing several damages to vehicles plying the roads. An operator of the transport industry Mr. John Ibangha, attests to the fact that the situation is becoming unbearable especially because they have become regulars at mechanic workshops due to bad roads. He said that money that would have been used for the upkeep of their families and payment of children’s school fees end up in the hands of spare part dealers and auto mechanics due to visitation to mechanics workshops to get the vehicles fixed. Apart from that, residents of the metropolis prefer to walk through these areas that are no longer motorable due to bad roads as taxis cab and Keke riders have completely boycotted those routes to avoid the numerous potholes. According to an environmentalist at the University of Calabar, Samuel Ajom, the new trend by our leaders who have taken delight in neglecting road maintenance, a trend which increases death traps, has added no value to the lives of Nigeria citizens. He said that instead, the trend has brought untold hardship on Nigerians residing in the states limiting people who may want to move from one location to another in order to go about their normal businesses. On her part, a market woman at Watt market, Mrs. Margaret Eteng, said federal and state governments need to rise up to their responsibilities of fixing the road network which had undergone serious decay. She said that should the government at all levels fail to heed the call, the people would be left with no option other than to refused payment of taxes so that the government would know that its citizens can never be taken for a ride.