The Chairman Senate Committee on Banking and Finance and Senator, representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Sen Uba Sani has promised to mobilise resources to fix the dilapidated structures at Kaduna Polytechnic. The lawmaker, who is a member of the Kaduna Polytechnic Alumni Association, also said it is high time members of the alumni association rose to the challenges of underdevelopment facing the institution. Speaking during the Kadpoly Alumni Association’s General Meeting with the theme: “Prospects and Challenges of Alumni Association: A case study of Kaduna Polytechnic Alumni Association, Sani, who was the as chairman of the occasion, challenged members to support the efforts of the current Rector to upgrade and develop the institution. He however, decried the dilapidated nature of structure in the polytechnic adding that it calls for urgent and proactive approach. According to Uba Sani, all members of the Alumni Association must come together to salvage the institution and restore its lost glory. He hinted that efforts were on at the national level to ensure conversion of the Kaduna polytechnic to a university to adequately face the current challenges of science and technology. “As part of my support to educational development, I am currently sponsoring about one hundred students in the college of forestry Kaduna and will continue to do so,” Sani stated. The Rector of Kaduna Polytechnic, Prof Idris Bugaje, extolled the virtues of the Alumni members of the institution for their immeasurable contribution to the growth and development of the school in all ramifications. He appealed to members, governments and other spirited individuals to come to the aid of the polytechnic and help tackle problems of infrastructural decay. The Guest Speaker and first chairman, Kaduna Polytechnic Alumni Association, Professor David Iornem in a paper he co-presented with the former Minister of State of Education, Prof Jerry Agada, identified Kaduna Polytechnic as a stepping stone for science and technological development in the country. According to them, the role of alumni members working together in a strong association is critical to development and sound leadership direction. The two alumni members of the polytechnic further contended that a cursory mention of challenges of the Kaduna Polytechnic brings about issue of transforming the institution into a technological university. Professor Iornem and Agada are of the view that a move in that direction will benefit the careers motivation of the students, the lecturers and the administrative staff of the institution