If Nigeria ports must achieve its dream status as maritime hub in West and Central Africa, it must dismantle all unnecessary charges that contributes to high shipping cost, YUSUF BABALOLA writes Cost is one of the variables that determine efficiency and viability of a seaport but Nigeria’s seaports which are supposed to be the hub in West and Central Africa are one of the most expensive in the world. This is due to many unofficial and unnecessary charges. The charges are either introduced by the agencies of government or private companies especially the shipping companies operating in the nation’s seaports. Charges such as container cleaning charges, war risk charge, container deposit charge among others, contributes immensely to high costs of operations and lack of competitiveness of Nigerian ports. The high port costs has however, fuelled cargo diversion to neighbouring countries’ ports such as the Benin Republic, Togo and Ghana ports. According to reports, 80 per cent of cargoes discharged at the ports of neighbouring countries are destined for Nigerian market and with the diversion, Nigeria economy loses taxes, customs duty, and other revenue to neighbouring ports. However, to avoid cargo diversion to neighbouring countries, the federal government directed its regulatory agencies to ensure charges are streamlined to meet global and regional standard for competitiveness and efficiency. To achieve this competitiveness and reduce the cost of shipping cargoes to Nigerian seaports, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) recently cancelled the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA), operated on behalf of the Navy by a private company, OMSL Limited. The NPA insists that the security of the country’s waterways remains the statutory responsibility of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Marine Police, and Nigerian Navy, which must all ensure a safe and secure Nigeria territorial waters. According to the managing director of the authority, Ms. Hadiza  Bala-Usman, the safe anchorage operations pile up costs to shipping companies as vessels anchored in the area are expected to pay as much as $2,500 (N900,000/ at prevailing rate of N360/$) for the first day and $1,500 (N540,000) for the subsequent days. The cancelation by NPA has however, been hailed by shipping agents, shipowners and other relevant stakeholders in the maritime sector, who claimed the initiative was timely to stave off additional financial burden that the contract is having on Nigeria bound vessels making use of the facility. It was gathered that it usually took between 28 and 30 days for a vessel to exit the anchorage and according to vessel traffic numbers obtained from the NPA, 1,666 vessels called at the Lagos ports alone in a quarter and a minimum of 55 per cent of vessels that call at the Lagos port stay at the SAA. This means that OMSL Limited, collects, averagely, $133.28 million (N47.98 billion) annually since 2014 from foreign shipping companies without remitting to the federal government. Also, the money collected were never remitted to the federal government according to investigation conducted by the NPA. Worried by the non-remittances, the Minister of Transportation, Rt Hon Chibuike Amaechi, directed the NPA to write a letter to the Chief of Naval Staff to request that the Navy stopped the operation of the facility. The NPA, in the letter, stated that the revenue generated from the operation at a charge of $1,500 per vessel per day from 2014 to date was neither remitted to it nor the federal government. NPA argued that the patrol boat, NNS Dorina P101, as mother vessel, and the interceptor vessels, NNS Agede P258 and NNS Torie P259, were all purchased by it for the Nigerian Navy to patrol the anchorage and not to be designated for use at a facility that has no relationship with it. The letter dated October 9, 2019, reads, “Sequel to your letter ref: NHQ/CNS/015/54/00/Vol.X111/695 of January 2018 to the Honourable Minister of Transportation giving the background to your involvement with the creation and operation of the Secure Anchorage for vessels by OMSL, the Minister has directed that a letter be written to your service to request that you stop the operation of this facility for the following reasons listed below: “One, by virtue of Port Act (1954), an Anchorage Area is an integral part of NPA statutory responsibility while NIMASA, Marine Police and Nigerian Navy ensure a safe and secure Nigeria territorial waters. Two, the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA) (Centre Point 06 17’30N/003 12’00E) established by OMSL is located within the port limit, which should be strictly under the management and control of the NPA. “Three, it is established that vessels are directed and regulated to this facility by OMSL, which NPA does not have contractual agreement with. However, the Navy has a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with OMSL and is providing security to the anchorage. Four, the continued operation of this facility by a private entity could pose security threat to the nation.” Stakeholders who commended the cancelation in a chat with LEADERSHIP Friday said it will help reduce shipping cost to Nigeria. According to former president, Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN), Engr Greg Ogbeifun, the laws of the country does not support operation of a secure anchorage. He however, commended the NPA for stopping the secure anchorage saying it has done the right thing. “Every country has got its own laws, and as much as possible, we must all operate within the laws of the country. Does the law of Nigeria allow the operation of a Secure Anchorage for vessels by a private firm? The answer is no. I believe that it is on this premise that the Nigerian Ports Authority has cancelled the Secure Anchorage system,” Ogbeifun said. He stated further, “From what I see, NPA took that decision on behalf of the ship-owners who use the Secure Anchorage. Do you know that every day, every ship that uses the Secure Anchorage pays $2000 daily? That is a huge cost element that is borne by the shipowner and the ship operator. If stopping that dedicated Secure Anchorage is going to save the shipowners approximately $60,000 a month, I think what NPA has come up with is commendable. “Can you imagine, let’s say 30 ships stay in the Secure Anchorage, that is $60,000 a month multiplied by 30 ships, that is huge. Imagine if a fraction of that amount goes towards encouraging government-led initiative, ship-owners won’t have to pay that much and such money won’t have to end in private pockets. I think the NPA has done the right thing by stopping the Secure Anchorage.” Also speaking, the president of the Nigerian Shipowners Association (NISA), Aminu Umar said local shipowners haven’t patronised the secured Anchorage since it started in the last administration. Umar also said in neighbouring countries, anchorages are under the authority of the country’s port authority and Navy. He said, “I remember some years back, before this government when this secure anchorage contract was approved, many of the Shipowners’ particularly the Nigerian shipowners said it is not supposed to be because it is the primary responsibility of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and Nigerian Navy to provide a secure Anchorage in any country and we have seen it in all other West African countries. “There is no country where private sector run an Anchorage, nowhere in the world, however, presently, I don’t think there is any Nigerian shipowner that is using or utilising the secure Anchorage. We have never used it before but I think the international shipowners that come or call in the country particularly Lagos, felt that they don’t feel secured at the Anchorage that is under the control of NPA, NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy. “So, they prefer to have a special Anchorage that make them more secured and where they see the patrols being done because of the frequency of attack outside Nigerian waters. This is why the SAA has been operating for these years,” Aminu said, adding that shipowners have always wanted Anchorage to be free and that’s the reason they pay levy to NIMASA for security of their vessels. “I think, it has always been that we want our Anchorage to be secured and it is part of the money we pay to NIMASA and NPA. That is what is obtainable all over the world where every Anchorage when you arrive anywhere particularly in West African countries like Togo, and Benin it is under their port, you arrive they take you were to park because you are supposed to be under their security and that is how it is all over the world.”