Less than 10 days to the local government election in Ekiti state,  seven serving council chairmen yesterday dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the All Progressives Congress (APC). The serving council chairmen in all the 16 local government areas of the state were elected on the platform of the PDP in the poll held in December 2017. The local government chairmen who joined APC along alongside their supporters, at a rally held at the Fajuyi Pavilion in Ado Ekiti, the state capital were received into the ruling party by the state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. They described Fayemi as a true leader who plays inclusive politics and never victimised them since coming to power last year. The council chairmen who dumped PDP are Ayodeji Daniel ( Ekiti West), Abiodun Dada (Ijero), Yemi Ayeni (Ikere), Tunde Aladegbami (Ido/Osi), Sikiru Ogundana (Ekiti East), Olubayode Okeya (Emure), and Yemi Owoeye (Efon). Governor Fayemi was represented at the rally by his Chief of Staff, Hon. Biodun Omoleye with other party chieftains including the state APC Chairman, Barrister Paul Omotoso and APC Southwest Zonal Publicity Secretary, Rt. Hon. Oladapo Karonwi among others present. The vice chairmen and councillors in the seven councils also defected to APC just as some commercial motorcyclists and mining association members formally jointed the party. All the seven council chairmen who addressed the gathering one after the other promised to work hard for their Addressing the gathering, Okeya, chairman Emure LGA, described Fayemi as “a real leader and a bridge builder who will go far in the politics of the country.” On his part, Aladegbami, chairman Ido/Osi LGA said Fayemi has set a record in ensuring harmonious relationship between opposition parties and never deceived or coerced them to join APC. He described Fayemi as a promise keeper who is passionate about the development of Ekiti and better welfare for its people. “I want to say that our doors are still open to those who are still in opposition to join us, come over to APC the party of the people. Omotoso said APC would give them a better platform to contribute to Ekiti development, urging them to join hands with the Governor in taking Ekiti to greater heights.