“Where all think alike, none thinks very much” – – Walter Lippmann. The above saying might have spurred the management of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), to the realisation that if it must succeed in its endeavour, it must galvanise its staff and the entire  Nigeria Hajj family to start preparation for the 2020 edition of the Holy pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. The commission has begun to plot the route to achieving this goal with the management and Senior staff to fashion a road map towards organising a successful Hajj against the backdrop of the implementation of Vision 2030 launched by the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Ibn Salman Ibn Abdul Aziz al Saud in 2018. The reason behind the idea was to ensure that everyone is on the same page for the tasks ahead as according to the Chairman /CEO of the Commission, Barrister Abdullahi Mukhtar Muhammed, the executive board cannot do it alone just as one hand cannot make a clap. He said that only the cooperation and support of the staff can the commission achieve its mandate. The Vision 2030 had envisioned and emphasised leverage on Information Technology to provide the best and highest quality services in the Hajj industry. Since planning is one of the keys to success, the Commission, therefore, began to roll out its programs of action with the Review  Meeting of Hajj 2019 with chief executives of state pilgrims welfare boards and their Tour Operator counterparts. The strategic meeting which is aimed at shaping and outlining the strategies to be adopted for the 2020 Hajj. The outcome of that meeting of minds was that states should begin the collection of the 2020 Hajj Fare from prospective pilgrims as well as the adoption of electronic registration of pilgrims. Another important step which is also a milestone pointing in the direction of the Next Level Agenda of the Commission management is the constitution and Inauguration of a 14-member committee to Pre-qualify Licensing of Service providers, especially the accommodation and feeding services in Makkah, Madina and Masha’ir. The event tagged as a watershed as it marked the first time the committee was created as early as this time and also in which the committee members will work at home. Giving a rationale for embarking on the historic event, the Chairman /CEO, Barrister Abdullahi Mukhtar Muhammed, explained that he decided on the issue in order to save costs in line with the federal government’s policy of reducing the cost of governance. Another reason for the decision is that the committee is expected to work online in compliance with the Saudi policy of leveraging on Information Technology. The committee members which comprises chief executives of Zamfara, Oyo and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Pilgrims Welfare Boards representing the South West, North Central and North West Zones and Senior Management staff of the Commission. The (exercise) which would sieve applications submitted online by applicants would not only save cost but would also eliminate the accusation of favouritism, bribery and corruption which often dogged the exercise every year. Amongst the other terms of reference is the evaluation of documents submitted to ensure that it met the standards stipulated that the applicant companies possessed the capacity, capability and experience to deliver the service applied for. They must not have an Integrity Issue or record of non-performance. Neither must they have pending litigation in Saudi Arabia or with any of the state pilgrims welfare boards /agencies or NAHCON. The company must not be under Receivership or Administration and on top of those must have Saudi Authorisation to provide or conduct such business or services. While inaugurating the committee Barrister Abdullahi admonished them to shun acts that will jeopardise the set standard of the commission and must conduct the assignment transparently without fear or favour. However, the stamp and seal of authority to commence the preparation for the 2020 Hajj would be given in early December when the commission in company of the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, state pilgrims board officials would converge in Saudi Arabia to sign the annual Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Saudi government Ministry of Hajj to formally confer on the commission the rights and privilege to commence preparation. Even though the arrangements may have been informally signed and sealed with the pre-talk that had been done in recent months. All of these are the good music that many Nigerians want to hear especially the MOU which would signify the number of pilgrims allocation to Nigeria as well as getting to know the policy that will be adopted by the Saudi government for the 2020 Hajj exercise.  Mousa A. Ubandawaki wrote in from the  Information and  Publication Division unit of NAHCON