Scientists at an American chocolate company have developed a ‘medicinal’ chocolate which could also be used as a medicine. The chocolate contains only 35 percent of fat. It is well-known that Cocoa, the main ingredient in chocolate, contains a good number of antioxidants and minerals which perform health benefits for human beings. The word ‘chocolate’ comes from the word ‘xocoatl’, which referred to the bitter, spicy drink made from cacao beans. In fact, chocolate has mostly been consumed as a drink for about 90 percent of its history. To know more amazing health benefits and facts on chocolate, keep reading. Facts on the benefits of chocolate: • Chocolate has always been used to treat a wide variety of ailments such as to help thin patients gain weight, to stimulate the nervous systems of weak people, to calm hyperactive, or to improve digestion and kidney function • Chocolate have numerous benefits for the blood and arteries. Chocolate helps prevent blood platelets from sticking together • Chocolate also have a healthy impact on blood pressure • Drinking a cocoa beverage can increase blood flow to the grey matter of the brain for up to three hours which is important for elderly people • Chocolate can even help improve weight management • Dark chocolate has more cacao and less sugar than other chocolates, so it is considered healthier than milk and white chocolate • Dark chocolate contains lots of antioxidants that help in reducing blood pressure • Eating dark chocolate widens arteries and promotes healthy blood flow • Eating dark chocolate every day reduces the risk of heart disease by one-third • The smell of chocolate increases theta brain waves, which activates relaxation in a human brain. Some random facts on chocolate: • It is well-known that at one point, the Nazis plotted to assassinate Winston Churchill with an exploding bar of chocolate • The scientific name for the tree that chocolate comes from, Theobroma cacao, means ‘food of the gods’ • Chocolate was consumed as a liquid, not a solid, for 90 percent of its history • When the Aztec empire ruled most of Mesoamerica, cacao seeds were used as a form of currency • The Aztec emperor Montezuma II drank more than 50 cups of chocolate every day • During the Revolutionary War, soldiers were sometimes paid in chocolate • The film Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory was financed by Quaker Oats to promote its new Wonka Bar candy. Ever wondered why the movie was named ‘Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory’ instead of ‘Charlie and the Chocolate Factory’ like the book it’s based on • The first chocolate bar was invented in 1847 by Joseph Fry. –Culled from India Today