Faced with apparent collapse of the power sector and the inability of the distribution companies (Discos) to deliver on their mandate, there are strong indications that the federal government may resort to drastic measures, such as taking over the companies. The government’s move to be actively involved in the industry came into the open yesterday after a brainstorming session by the National Economic Council (NEC) in Abuja, yesterday, on the inherent problems in the power generation and distribution chain. To enable it take well-informed decision on the matter, the council set up an ad-hoc committee headed by the governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, to review the ownership structure of the power distribution companies (DisCos). The governor had served as the boss of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), which supervised the privatisation of some keen national assets and enterprises NEC comprises key officials of the federal government, including ministers and state governors and their commissioners of finance. It is usually presided over by the vice president. After yesterday’s NEC meeting headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, told State House correspondents at the presidential villa that government is desirous to reconsider the ownership structure of the DisCos. He explained that the review committee on the ownership of the DisCos apart from el-Rufai included governors representing the six geo-political zones who are serving in the boards of the organizations as well as representatives from the National Council on Privatisation (NCP). Governor Ihedioha disclosed that the accountant-general of the federation, Idris Ahmed, informed the NEC that the balance in the Excess Crude Account (ECA) as at November 20, 2019 was $324.539 million, while the balance in the Stabilisation Account stood at N29.480 billion. The governor said that the Natural Resources Development Fund Account balance as at 20th November was N79.751billion. The council also approved an additional investment of $250 million into the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). NSIA managing director, Uchechi Orji, said that following a presentation, the council resolved that el-Rufai should chair a committee of the NEC to consider how a portion of the National Pension Fund can be leveraged into investment in the NSIA with possible implementation with PenCom. He said that the committee will have the minister of finance, Zainab Ahmed, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, and the NSIA managing director as members. The NSIA chief executive also announced the setting up of a committee to work out the modalities for collaboration between the NSIA and the National Pension Commission on how to channel pension funds for investment Orji had revealed that NSIA made a profit of N44.3billion in 2018 and N24 billion in 2019 The NSIA had presented its 2018 annual report and 2019 finance update where it disclosed a profit of N44.3 billion in 2018, adding that in the first half of 2019, the NSIA made a profit of N24 billion. He said: “This was achieved in the face of a volatile international market environment driven by the trade dispute between the United States and China as well as Brexit challenges.” At the meeting, NEC passed a vote of confidence on the NSIA, which activities focus on infrastructure funding, especially on agriculture, road, power, healthcare projects and industrialisation. Orji stated that NSIA as the manager of the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) is focused on deploying capital to ensure the completion of the second Niger Bridge, Abuja-Kano Highway and Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Others are the Mambila Hydro Power project and East-West Road. NSIA also announced plans to deploy capital into expanding health projects, following a successful implementation of its cancer treatment project through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) with Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) as well as a diagnostic and radiology centre at the Aminu Kano Specialist Hospital to be commissioned next month and the Federal Medical Centre, Umahia PPP project which will be completed in the first quarter of year 2020. “To facilitate this, the NSIA will create co-investment fund to bring other investors into these projects to ensure that they get completed with a revenue model of tolling the roads and tapping other opportunities to ensure that these roads are viable,” Orji said. Senate, Govs Endorse 7.5% VAT Hike Meanwhile, the Senate and the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) have endorsed the proposed Value Added Tax (VAT) from five per cent to 7.5 per cent but rejected the Hate Speech Bill. The governors appealed to the National Assembly to hold a public hearing on the controversial bill to ensure that due process is followed. Last week, the federal government had that said the extant Cybercrime Act 2015 was enough to handle the purveyors of hate speech on the social media. The bill, sponsored by Senator Sabi Abdullahi, prescribes death by hanging for violators, which led to calls for it to be jettisoned by the lawmakers as it hampers free speech. The vice chairman of NGF and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, told newsmen after the group’s meeting on Wednesday night in Abuja that “I’m not sure I have heard any governor come out to say he is in support of death penalty for hate speech. ”I believe the National Assembly should hold a public hearing on that bill, so that due process of lawmaking is followed and not just the governors will be well captured on that bill. “They should respect the views of Nigerians in whatever may be the direction of the debate and the eventual passage or otherwise of that bill,” he said. On the position of the governors on the finance bill that has passed second reading in NASS to increase VAT from five per cent to 7.5 per cent, the NGF vice chairman said that the forum was in support of it because the measure would boost revenue for the federal and state governments. According to him, the federal and state governments need a lot of resources to turn around infrastructure, invest in education and health. Tambuwal stated: “We are in support of that bill, we are in support of what will definitely improve on the revenue generation for the federal government and states. ”And we are appealing to those who don’t have proper understanding of the context of those bills to kindly have a rethink and reflect on the quantum of work that is ahead of us as a country and as states. “We need a lot of resources to turn around infrastructure, to invest in education, health, in virtually every sector of our national life. So, there is urgent need for more revenues for Nigeria. ”So, we appeal that we should show more understanding with the federal government in that regard,” he said. On the threats by organised labour to embark on a strike by December over the N30,000 minimum passage, Tambuwal said that “state governments have been engaging with their branches of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), I’m sure it is work in progress and before December all the states must have finished working out the details on the minimum wage across the federation. “We are very much committed to the welfare and wellbeing of our workforce and therefore we shall continue to ensure we do our best on what needs to be done,” the governor stated. Commenting on the domestication of the Child Rights Act by the states to reduce number of out-of- school children, Tambuwal said that “I believe so many individual states have passed the law, the states that are having some delays have to do with either religious or cultural issues. I am addressing those issues at local level; they are dealing with peculiarities of individual states.” Also yesterday, the Senate passed 56 amendments in the seven finance bills forwarded to it by President Muhammadu Buhari, which retained personal income tax exemption for the military, para-military bodies, and Nigerians on foreign service, as contained in the parent law. The bill, which  proposed  an increment on VAT from five per cent to 7.5 per cent and other amendments to fiscal laws to ensure adequate funding of the 2020 budget was passed after the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Finance. The Finance Bill 2019 was sent by President Buhari to the joint session of the National Assembly on 14th October. The bill has seven components of Companies’ Income Tax, VAT, Customs and Excise Tariff, and Personal Income Tax. Others are Capital Gains Tax, Stamp Duties, and Petroleum Profit Tax. The bill introduced tax reforms which are expected to help the government achieve its revenue projections for the 2020 budget. The chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Adeola Olamilekan (APC, Lagos West), said that the members conducted public hearing on the amendments. Olamilekan said that the people exempted from the personal income tax were captured in the “principal Act” under income tax section. Before the passage of bill, the Senate leader, Senator Abdullahi Yahaya, (APC, Kebbi North), urged his colleagues to shun partisanship and ensure that what they passed would benefit the ordinary Nigerian. Senator Abba Moro (PDP, Benue South) said that it was necessary for the Senate to revisit the clause on amendment of VAT, noting that the comparison of Nigeria with other develop nations as basis for the hike was not tenable. Senator Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia) said that the bill which is about Nigerians was not designed to tax the poor but on luxury goods. Senator Gabriel Suswan (PDP, Benue) said that some of the amendments in the bill would definitely affect Nigerians in one way or the other.. He urged the federal government to put in place a social safety net to mitigate the effects of the increase on VAT. Thereafter, the Senate went into the Committee of the Whole for a clause-by-clause consideration of the bill. Following the unanimous affirmation of voice votes, the  Finance Bill 2019 was passed for assent by President Buhari.