A United Kingdom Commercial Court headed by Justice Butcher yesterday, granted Nigeria’s application for a variation of the conditions of the stay of execution of the enforcement order it earlier granted Process and Industrial Development Limited (P&ID) on the controversial $9.6billion judgement debt. The court’s relief came after four days of legal fireworks between Nigeria and the company. The matter was heard last Friday, Monday, Tuesday, and yesterday before the federal government’s pleas were granted by Justice Butcher. The development is seen as a pointer to the government’s possible overturning of the $9.6 billion judgement debt awarded against Nigeria in favour of P&ID by a UK court. A senior official of the Federal Ministry of Justice confirmed to LEADERSHIP last night that the British court granted fresh reliefs to the government in the case against P&ID. On Friday, November 22, 2019, the UK court had rejected the federal government’s application for the extension of time to comply with the deposit of $200 million condition but showed its readiness to accept a “satisfactory bank guarantee” as proposed by Nigeria towards the end of the hearing on that day. Last Monday, the court, while hearing the application for variation granted an extension of the stay till November 26, 2019, and subsequently till yesterday, when it varied the condition for stay, pending the determination of the appeal filed before the UK Court of Appeal by Nigeria against the enforcement of the award. The disputed Gas Supply and Purchase Agreement was purportedly signed by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources during the tenure of the late Rilwanu Lukman with P&ID. Nigeria has maintained its decision to challenge the legality and validity of the GSPA both locally and in the UK where it is still contending that Nigeria is the seat of arbitration. The government had also insisted that no payment to P&ID could be made, as the company is under prosecution for fraud and corruption by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The court had maintained that its deadlines must be complied with which made Nigeria to propose a bank guarantee as a variation to the previous order. This was accepted by the court. Also, yesterday, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, said that he had no personal interest in the current efforts to recover about $62.1billlion owed the country by International Oil Companies (IOCs). In a statement released by his media aide, Dr. Umar Gwandu, the minister described as untrue, claims in certain quarters that he had a plan to receive kickback from Trobell International (Nig.) Ltd, the firm engaged by his office to recover the debt. He insisted that his action was “neither propelled by any ulterior motive nor about gratification of any personal desire through any percentage to be given to the recovery agent, but of an unflinching patriotic commitment to get back to the country the revenue it deserves.” An online medium, The Cable, had reported that the presidency disengaged Trobell from the debt recovery contract because of the huge amount the five per cent fee to be paid to the company translates to. Malami had defended the fee, which he rated as modest when compared to the quantum of the debt in question. But yesterday, the minister said that it has never been his tradition to demand for or accept a kobo on matters relating to such engagements and conduct of his official duties. He said: “Multiple agents were overtime engaged in that respect without pecuniary consideration,” adding that the process of paying the professional fees was exclusively the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “It is a function exclusively vested in the Federal Ministry of Finance which has the right to vet, confirm and interrogate issues before any payment is made. And payments are made upon recovery directly to the recovery agent and not to the Office of the Attorney-General.” The minister said that rather than “adopting campaign of calumny, evasive and dilly-dally techniques and tactics, the oil companies and their allies should channel such efforts toward paying the federal government its due, so as to execute more developmental projects in the country. “The attorney-general of the federation is determined to protect his integrity against individuals and corporate personalities bent on tarnishing his reputation in the conduct of government affairs,” Malami warned.