The governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, has decried the poor supply of high quality cassava flour in Nigeria; a situation he said was putting pressure on the nation’s foreign exchange conservation. According to the CBN governor, Nigeria spends a record sum of $600 million, equivalent of N184,170,000,000 billion on importation of cassava derivatives as starch, glucose, sorbitol and other products. “May I also draw your attention to the fact that aside from foreign exchange conservation, increasing cassava production is a necessity as starch, glucose, sorbitol and other products currently being imported proffers no future for the nation in the long-term, in view of the fact that Nigeria imports cassava derivatives valued at over $600m annually” He stated this while addressing stakeholders at a meeting with State governors of Cassava Producing States and Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between Nigeria Cassava Growers Association and Large Scale Cassava Processors in Abuja. Emefiele said there was a huge gap and potential demand that exists in the nation’s cassava value chain. He said the demand for High Quality Cassava Flour (HQCF) in bread, biscuits and snacks was above  500,000 metric tons annually, while supply  was below 15,000MT; while the demand for cassava starch was above 300,000MT annually, while supply was below 10,000MT. Further, he claimed that the demand for cassava-based constituents in sugar syrup was above 350,000MT annually, while supply was almost nonexistent. He added that potential demand for ethanol in Nigeria as a fuel for cooking, to power vehicles (E10), and other industrial uses exceeds one billion litres, while production was nearly zero. “It was on this premise that we included cassava in the FX exclusion list to salvage the industry, encourage farmers to go back to their farms to boost job creation and increase output and improve the capacity utilisation of our processing companies,” he disclosed. “Although huge investments were made into the industry during the cassava bread initiative of the former administration of Goodluck Jonathan, the industry continues to suffer as a result of low yield varieties, poor farm practices, lack of good quality farm inputs, non-utilisation of available cultivable lands, manual system of production, inadequate funding for smallholder out grower schemes and low processing capacity. Cassava represents one of the most important economic crops in the world. Today, the world market for the commodity is one of the most dynamic with the volume of production and foreign trade growing steadily. Nigeria is the largest producer ; producing about 53.0 million MT in 2018, but with a very low average yield of about 7.7 MT per hectare as compared to 23.4 MT and 22.2 MT per ha in Indonesia and Thailand respectively. Statistics however, showed that out of 53.0 million MT of cassava produced in Nigeria annually, more than 90 per cent  was processed into food for human consumption whereas a significant industrial demand exists for the output of processed cassava, primarily as a substitute for imported raw materials and semi-finished products. National president of Nigeria Cassava Growers Association, Pastor Segun Adewunmi, said 150, 000 farmers were being empowered by the MoU. He disclosed that $17 million investment was coming into the 600,000 hectares of land allocated to the farmers in Ekiti State alone. In his reaction, Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, pledged the support of the south west zone of the country to support the CBN intervention as commercial cassava production to create jobs for people in the cassava value chain. “For us, it’s a welcome development. We like to work with you on it; and we like to really develop a framework that is sustainable over a long time.  The gap is clear. And we can take advantage of this to provide jobs for our people,” Fayemi said, adding, “You have hope. We are ready. We will work with you sir. And we will ensure that we support our ordinary out-growers who are looking for the kind of support to make them produce more hectares of cassava products to feed the processors’ plants that are lying idle across the country.” Governor Fayemi, who lamented the invasion and destruction of farmlands by suspected herdsmen in the region, called for the need to consider security for the farmers, stating that insecurity of the farmers and their produce was a major threat they face every day.