The Chinese Hebei International Investment Promotion Association, has expressed desire to invest technology and healthcare sector of the Nigeria economy stressing that it will further promote Hebei international investment and trade between the two countries. The Vice President, Hebei Federation of lndustry and Commerce, Mrs Guo Cui Duo, made this known when she led a group of Chinese investors to a meeting with officials of the federal ministry of industry trade and investment, in Abuja yesterday. Duo noted that some of the sectors being targeted for such international investment in Nigeria are biotechnology, real estate development, investment and insurance brokerage. Adding that construction engineering, construction materials, electrical equipment, mineral development, Solar power generation, intelligent solar street lamp, Medical apparatus and instruments, medical supplies, among other. She said, “Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa, the largest economy in Africa, and the largest oil producer and exporter in Africa. “As the capital of Nigeria, Abuja is rich in mineral resources and its economic strength ranks the forefront of the country. “It has great cooperation potential with many enterprises in Hebei province,” she said. According to her, we hope that the two sides will give full play to their respective strengths and, on the basis of deepening all-round exchanges and cooperation. The Chinese Hebei International Investment Promotion Association is an association that is fully committed to promoting international economic exchanges and investment cooperation. Receiving the China groups on behalf of the federal ministry of industry trade and investment, the Director of Investment Promotion Department in the ministry, Olukemi Arodudu said that the ministry is trying to make the China investors comfortable so that they will decide to invest in Nigeria. Adding that for them to invest in Nigeria will believe that is good for them to invest in the state. “So we have invited several state governments come and meet with them, the state government and the government agencies will introduced to them our business investment opportunities in Nigeria, and we are hoping that by the end of the day there will be a number of MOU will be signed to eventual investment in Nigeria”.