Over the years, dignity has become an important topic of discussion in philosophy, religion, human rights and law. Although, the term ‘dignity’ has a descriptive meaning that pertains to the worth of human beings, in general, the term has various functions and meanings depending on how it’s used and the context. In the context of the Quran, dignity is a right for all. We have dignified the sons of Adam; provided them with transport on land and sea; given them for sustenance, things good and pure; and conferred on them special favours, above a great part of our creation. Sura Al-Isra’, Ayah 70. Considering the verse, one can rightly understand that, dignity is the right of a person to be valued and respected for their own sake, and to be treated ethically. Also, it is of significance in morality, ethics, law and politics as an extension of the enlightenment-era concepts of inherent, inalienable rights, given to all by the Almighty, regardless of his gender, faith or political and tribal background. The English word ‘dignity,’ attested from the early 13th century, comes from Latin dignitas (worthiness). Modern use English-speakers often use the word dignity in proscriptive and cautionary ways: for example, in politics it can be used to critique the treatment of oppressed and vulnerable groups and people. But it has also been applied to cultures and sub-cultures, to religious beliefs and ideals and even to animals used for food or research. In ordinary modern usage, the word denotes respect and status; and it is often used to suggest that someone is not receiving a proper degree of respect, or even that they are failing to treat themselves with proper self-respect. Categories of human dignity can be violated in multiple ways. The main categories of violations are:  Humiliation Violation of human dignity in terms of humiliation refers to acts that humiliate or diminish the self-worth of a person or a group. Acts of humiliation are context dependent but we normally have an intuitive understanding where such a violation occurs. More generally, etymology of the word humiliation has a universal characteristic in the sense that in all languages, the word involves downward spatial orientation in which something or someone is pushed down and forcefully held there. This approach is common in judicial decisions where judges refer to violations of human dignity as injuries to people’s self-worth or their self-esteem. Instrumentalisation or objectification This aspect refers to treating a person as an instrument or as means to achieve some other goal. This approach could be seen in our politicking whereby people are becoming less important than voting instruments. Degradation violations of human dignity as degradation refers to acts that degrade the value of human beings. These are acts that, even if done by consent, convey a message that diminishes the importance or value of all human beings. They consist of practices and acts that modern society generally considers unacceptable for human beings, regardless of whether subjective humiliation is involved, such as selling oneself to slavery, or when people are paying ransom to secure their lives from kidnappers.  Dehumanisation These are acts that strip a person or a group of their human characteristics. It may involve describing or treating them as animals or as a lower type of human beings. This has occurred in genocides such as Rwanda and some parts of Nigeria where people were compared to insects. Some of the practices that violate human dignity include torture, rape, social exclusion, labour exploitation, bonded labor, and slavery. Both absolute and relative poverty are violations of human dignity, although they also have other significant dimensions, such as social injustice. Absolute poverty is associated with overt exploitation and connected to humiliation (for example, being forced to eat food from other people’s garbage) but being dependent upon others to stay alive is a violation of dignity even in the absence of more direct violations. Relative poverty, on the other hand, is a violation because the cumulative experience of not being able to afford the same clothes, entertainment, social events, education, or other features of typical life in that society results in subtle humiliation; social rejection; marginalisation; and consequently, a diminished self-respect. Another example of violation of human dignity, especially for women in developing countries, is lack of sanitation. Having no access to toilets leaves currently about one billion people of the world with no choice other than to defecate in the open, which has been declared by the deputy secretary-general of the United Nations as an affront to personal dignity.