The Oil and Gas Producing Communities of Akwa Ibom State have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the Nigerian 1999 Constitution, as amended, is adhered to as regards the payment of the 13% Derivation Fund. The communities, in a letter addressed to President Buhari and made available to journalists in Abuja on Thursday, lamented the effects of oil and gas production activities on their lives and environment, pointing out that the Constitution provided for the aid to their communities, categorically to ease off the harsh effects of oil production activities. The letter, signed by seven representatives of the communities, including Chief Ekot Udoakwa Akpakip for Ibeno; Sir Katomba K. Katomba for Eastern Obolo; and Hon. Emmanuel Iyang for Esit Eket, however, appealed to the President to do the needful and ensure the communities get their dues directly from the federal government. “Stakeholders, under the aegis of Akwa Ibom State Oil and Gas Producing Communities, wish to categorically express our advocacy and agitations for the payment of 13% derivation fund directly to Oil and Gas Producing Communities in the State. “Our demand as concerned stakeholders in the affected Host Communities is that 13% derivation fund, which is a constitutional right of the oil and gas producing areas in the country, is enshrined in section 162(2) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended. “Provided the principle of derivation should be constantly reflected in any approved revenue formula as being not less than 13% of the revenue accruing to the federation directly from any national revenue”. Constitutionally and legally, 13% of oil revenue produced in Akwa Ibom State should be returned back to Host Communities. “To this effect, 13% of the oil produced in the state is our entitlement and should be paid directly to us – Host Communities. The present situation and practice of paying the 13% derivation fund to state governors is illegal and unconstitutional. “Regrettably, lack of payment of this revenue has brought untold hardship and abject poverty to the affected people in the host communities, our fishing rights, properties and farmlands have all gone as a result of oil exploration and production activities in these communities and we can no longer continue with this sad development, We therefore, appeal to the federal government to listen to our plight”, the letter said.