 …Where the Falsehood Lies. Beneficiaries of the benevolence and unmatched kindness and philanthropy of High Chief (Dr) O.B Lulu Briggs has refutes the falsehood associated with publications in the print and online media emanating from the “Oruwari Briggs House” which are now beginning to create doubts in the hearts of many as to the genuineness of assertions made in the said publications, considering unfolding events.  Unravelling how some self-seeking and self-styled “Oruwari Briggs House” chiefs has  attempted to criminalize at all cost, It was revealed that the wife of the deceased and matriarch of the High Chief (Dr.) Olu Benson Lulu-Briggs family, Dr. (Mrs.) Seinye O.B. Lulu-Briggs Briggs. The Beneficiaries says that the action was not only desperate and cruel but is also full of contradictions most of which indicts the authors themselves.  The write up which has earlier raised more questions than answers and heightened suspicion, hence the collective determination the beneficiaries of the largesse of the High Chief and his amiable wife has question the real intentions  and what their actions seek to underscore.   According to a statement , “that High Chief (Dr.) O.B. Lulu-Briggs died at age 88, and  had suffered ill-health for more than 20 years which he did not allow in any way to slow him down but continued to live a full life.  He was said to finally passed-on on December, 2018 in Accra, Ghana.  Stressing that Contrary to the claims on the “Oruwar Briggs House,” the devastated wife contacted one of  the High Chief’s   sons- Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs and his first daughter as they have arrived in Accra, Ghana to view Chief’s body with other members of the immediate family,’ they resisted any falsehood associated with the self-seeking and self-styled propagandists.  Like the time-tested saying “conscience is an open wound which only truth can heal”, the activities of the presumed family kinsmen of the deceased, an influential giant son of Kalabari origin, will sooner than later be laid bare for all men to see. It is regrettable and painful too that, even before his committal to earth, those he may have been considered kin, have revealed their real feelings towards him, his estate and those he held to heart while alive.  “It would sincerely lift the spirit of any good man, woman and child to know that, those of us who benefitted from his benevolence have refused to remain closed-mouthed in the face of the evil plan and we are individually and collectively determined   to   stand for the truth in preserving the integrity of the God-fearing, people-loving High Chief Dr. O. B. Lulu-Briggs against the adversities of inordinate men.  He said “Oruwari Briggs House” after being notified by Chief’s oldest son, issued a Press Release in the Punch Newspaper dated Tuesday, January 1, 2019 announcing the sad event of the High Chief’s passing. About a week later, the family members visited Accra, Ghana and viewed the corpse again and made all necessary arrangements for it to be brought home for burial preparations.  “Oruwari Briggs House” commenced burial plans amidst several meetings. The initial burial date slated for January 26, 2019 was shifted to April 6, 2019.   However, the funeral was eventually postponed. It is important to note that the publication announcing the postponement emanated from one of the “Oruwari Briggs House” Chiefs who incidentally is High Chief Lulu-Briggs’s son.  Paradoxically questionably and indeed strangely, the same “Oruwari Briggs House” that had made these precious publications came out with another publication dated May 23, 2109 claiming not to know whether Chief O.B was dead or alive and for what it was worth made feeble attempts to criminalize the mourning wife Dr. (Mrs.) Seinye Lulu-Briggs by the vile and dishonest claims that she was acting unilaterally and mystifying the death of her husband.  Thus regarding the attempt as the highest level of conspiracy, contradiction and loss of self-respect and dignity for the Oruwari Chief’s council.  And it is probably the worst form of denigration for the highly respected High Chief, who was its paramount head until his passing, in death.  Speaking further, that it was an ungodly conduct from the acclaimed “Oruwari Briggs House” whom we consider as attack dogs on a paid sabotage mission, and ourselves the beneficiaries of his benevolence who see ourselves as family that prompted our inquisitiveness to investigate and unravel the concerted plot against a widow who has, for nearly two decades been married to the deceased and who looked lovingly after her husband till his last moments on earth, and we kindly invite the general public to reflect on the under listed questions; What would one make out of the conduct of the “Oruwari Briggs House?” Why would the chiefs of “Oruwari Briggs House” who issued an obituary notice and funeral postponement turn around to issue a full page paid advert in the newspapers with the odious title “Is High Chief O.B Lulu Briggs alive or dead?”  “ Dr. (Mrs.) Seinye Lulu-Briggs informed the only other chief in the Lulu-Briggs family immediately he was confirmed dead? If so, did the chief who happens to be her step-son Chief Dumo, the Chairman of Platform Petroleum Limited forget that he notified the rest of the Oruwari Briggs House Chiefs? And several other issues raised.  “ all well-meaning Kalabaris, Rivers indigenes and Nigerians ought to rise up to the challenge and defy the antics of the enemies of the lasting legacy of this colossus and most illustrious son of Nigeria and indeed the African continent,’ He said