At least, the cumulative sum of N273, 809,842,071.99 billion has been saved from implementation of federal government initiated Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of federal government. The money was saved within a period of two years: 2017 to 2018 alone, according to Accountant-General of the Federation Ahmed Idris. He believes that the savings would have been lost, but now available for government to deploy for other uses while giving credit to faithful implementation of the programme that is aimed at promoting probity, transparency and accountability in Government expenditure. According to the Accountant-General of the federation, “as at today the total MDAs on IPPIS Platform is 561 with a total staff counts of over 755,422.” Prior to 2015, the total number of Ministries Department and Agencies on IPPIS was 288 with a total staff counts of 235,858, according to official figures. Speaking at a meeting with Vice Chancellors, Registrars and Bursars of federal Universities in Abuja yesterday, Mr. Idris disclosed that in total compliance with the Presidential directive for enrolment of all MDAs drawing their personnel cost form the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) into the IPPIS platform, the Nigeria Police and the Para-Military Agencies are already been paid on IPPIS Platform. “The enrolment of the Nigeria Military- Army, Navy and Airforce have just been concluded and a Trial payroll is on-going. In a similar vein, the enrolment of Federal Polytechnics is scheduled for early July, 2019,” he said. Idris  disclosed that there is always reduction in wage bill whenever a new agency is brought on board the platform. The meeting was organised for participants to come up with the best practical possible means to comply with the president’s directive  for actualization of above  laudable goals of IPPIS policy. Managements and staff unions of the tertiary institutions had drew exception to the programme citing peculiar factors why wages of University staff should not be registered in on the platform. The argument of ASUU for instance was that the IPPIS programme did not accommodate the peculiarities of the job of university lecturers, a challenge the engagement yesterday sought to address. The Universities are skeptical about the capacity and the capability of IPPIS to accommodate their peculiarities as well as fear of losing their autonomy. “I wish to assure you that IPPIS does not only have the capacity to accommodate 2 million federal employees, its payroll  applications are flexible enough to accommodate all peculiarities such as sabbatical, visitation, honorarium and earned allowances etc as the case may be of the Universities,” Mr. Idris promised. He assured them that the centralized payroll will be prepared by individual Universities but coordinated by IPPIS while the total management of the Human Resources rest squarely with the Universities. This will not in any way compromised the autonomy of Universities. The AGF therefore, called for their co-operation to achieve a seamless enrolment that will be win-win game for both the Universities and the Government. Reacting, Chairman Committee of Vice-Chancellors, who is also current Vice Chancellor of Bayero University Kano, Professor Muhammad Yahuza Bello expressed delight over the promise by the AGF to consider the peculiar nature of the job of the university lecturers before commencement of implementation of the programme. “The promise of the AGF is quite consoling,” he said. He urged government to take into account the views and concerns that would be brought up from the interactions for easy implementation of the programme in the Universities, while assuring government of the readiness of the Universities and their staff unions to implement the initiative. With the expected mutual understanding and the objectives of IPPIS enrolment which are in tandem with the Universities efforts in ensuring probity, transparency and accountability in governance, Idris says there is no doubt that the gathering is on the same pedestal to achieve the desired objectives of governance which is a win-win game for both the Universities and the Government. 