Coffee is one of the most popular beverages worldwide.However, consuming it in  excess is said to have some health effects. HENRY TYOHEMBA writes. Coffee is a brewed drink prepared from roasted coffee beans, the seeds of berries from certain Coffea species. The genus Coffea is native to tropical Africa and Madagascar, the Comoros, Mauritius, and Réunion in the Indian Ocean. Coffee plants are now cultivated in over 70 countries, primarily in the equatorial regions of the Africa, Americas, Southeast Asia and Indian subcontinent. It is generally very safe for most people, but consuming too much of it can be dangerous. According to the Mayo Clinic, up to 400 milligrams of caffeine a day appears to be safe for most healthy adults. That’s about the amount of caffeine in four cups of brewed coffee, 10 cans of cola or two “energy shot” drinks. Victorian writer Anthony Trollope in his 1855 novel titled ‘The Warden’ once writes that “What on earth could be more luxurious than a sofa, a book, and a cup of coffee? For many people, coffee is the magical brew that kickstarts the day, a much-needed pick-me-up in the afternoon and sometimes even a well-appreciated digestive after dinner. However, a new study claims that taking too much coffee could be have some health hazard. Many recent studies have suggested that drinking coffee can bring a number of benefits in addition to enhancing focus and productivity. In fact, researchers have argued that coffee can help maintain brain health, help increase a person’s lifespan, and even slow down prostate cancer. However, as with any food or beverage — even the most nutritious and healthful ones there is a limit to how much coffee we can consume. Not only can drinking too much coffee create ill effects in the short-term some of the symptoms of overcaffeination are headaches, dizziness, and nausea but consistently having too much of this drink could increase a person’s risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The findings on whether excess coffee is dangerous to health appear in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition where the researchers build on previous studies indicating that people with a specific variant of the gene CYP1A2, which plays a key role in caffeine metabolism, metabolize this substance less efficiently. This can put them at an increased risk of developing high blood pressure (hypertension) and cardiovascular disease. In the new study, the investigators wanted to determine how much coffee would increase the cardiovascular risk of people with and without this genetic variant. To find out, they analyzed the data of 347,077 people aged 37–73, of whom 8,368 had diagnosed cardiovascular disease. The scientists accessed these data through the UK Biobank. “An estimated 3 billion cups of coffee are enjoyed every day around the world,” explains study co-author Prof. ElinaHyppönen. For this reason, she explains, “knowing the limits of what’s good for you and what’s not is imperative.” “As with many things,” she cautions, “it’s all about moderation; overindulge and your health will pay for it.” In their analysis, the scientists looked at how much coffee the participants drank per day, whether or not they had the genetic variant that resulted in slow caffeine metabolism, and how likely they were to develop cardiovascular disease. They found that despite the fact that people without the specific CYP1A2 genetic variant were able to process caffeine four times faster than those with it, this did not appear to significantly affect their cardiovascular risk. However, the amount of coffee they consumed per day did. In fact, all the people who frequently drank six or more cups of coffee per day  the scientists defined one cup as containing around 75 milligrams of caffeine had a modest increase in cardiovascular disease risk. “Most people would agree that if you drink a lot of coffee, you might feel jittery, irritable, or perhaps even [nauseous] that’s because caffeine helps your body work faster and harder, but it is also likely to suggest that you may have reached your limit for the time being,” says Prof. Hyppönen. 