The managing director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu, said the Authority was working to keep airport environment clean at all times, saying they have not relented in measuring and monitoring the amount of emissions in the environment. Yadudu, who was represented by the FAAN’s general manager, Environment, Mrs. Omere Janet, made the observation yesterday, during the commemoration of World Environment Day (WED) organised by FAAN in collaboration with Nigerian Environmental Society (NES). According to Yadudu, experiences garnered from 2018 WED have adequately equipped the agency to be able to manage the issue of plastic solution at the airports. Yadudu said, “On our own part in the airport, we have tried to stop the use of pure water and also to discourage water bottles and plastic containers. A lot of things have been put in place to reduce plastic usage at the airports. Within our environment, we are also encouraging paper bags instead of plastic and nylon littering the whole environment. “Year ago, our present managing director who was the director of airports operations started that initiative of cleaner environment. In Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA), we are taking a study of carbon emissions and we found out that there are four levels in reducing carbon emissions. “We are almost through with the first level which is mapping. We have also taken statistics and gotten data of emission that has to do with electricity, generating sets and all that. We are keying into that in MMA; we have also completed that of Abuja,” Yadudu added. Moreover, he said that FAAN was complying with environmental requirements in line with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), adding that the Authority’s environment department was doing something to control carbon emissions into the environment. The FAAN boss also pointed out that recent environmental audit done showed that the amount of emissions into the environment was in line with the limits recommended by both World Bank and Airports Council International (ACI). In his goodwill message, director- general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt Muktar Usman expressed appreciation to FAAN for organising the programme, urging them to continue with the laudable initiative. Usman, who was represented by general manager, Air Transport Regulation, Rotimi Arogunjo said, “I want to also say that NCAA is already in collaboration with FAAN on emissions reduction. It is a good thing that we are moving forward.” In his message on World Environment Day, secretary general of United Nations, António Guterres, said air pollution kills and causes long term health problems such as asthma and reduces children’s cognitive development. Guterres, who was represented by the director of United Nations Information Centre (UNIC) in Lagos, Ronald Kayanja said, “Today, we face an equally urgent crises. It is time to act decisively. My message to government is clear; tax pollution; end fossil fuels subsidies; and stop building new coal plants. We need a green economy not a grey economy.”