The chairman of the Bayelsa State Independent Electoral Commission (BSIEC), Dr Perekeme Bertola, yesterday, resigned his position over alleged threat to his life by some unnamed members of opposition parties in the state. The resignation, which is coming 70 days to the August 10 date, has triggered controversy with some opposition parties accusing the ruling party, the Peoples Democractic Party (PDP) of a cover-up to the plot of non-conduct of the election. The former chairman of the BSIEC, through his media aide, Mr Tonye Yemoleigha, cited “threats to his life and immediate family” as reasons for throwing in the towel. A source in the commission hinted that the chairman’s resignation may be connected to the fact that “Dr Perekeme bowed to pressure from opposition parties to have the elections shifted by two weeks.” According to our source, the shift in the date for the polls allegedly angered some power brokers in the state, who, in turn, wanted him out of office by any means possible. However, the chairman, in his resignation letter, dated May 31, 2019, thanked the governor for giving him the opportunity to serve, while expressing hope that his resignation would not affect the conduct of the polls slated for August 10, 2019. Already, the Bayelsa State governor, Hon Seriake Dickson, has accepted the resignation of the chairman of the State Independent Electoral Commission (BSIEC), Dr Perekeme Bertola. In a statement signed by the commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the governor thanked Bertola for his services to the commission, particularly for setting in motion the conduct of the August 10, 2019 local council election. He said regardless of the development, the council election would still go on, as the other members of the commission are in agreement to carry on with the business of conducting hitch-free council polls”. The statement noted that the most senior member of the commission would take charge in acting capacity, pending the appointment of a substantive chairman. The Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, in his replacement, forwarded to the State House of Assembly for confirmation, stated that Hon Ball Oyarede would replace the immediate past chairman of the Bayelsa State Independent Electoral Commission (BSIEC), Perekeme Bertola. The governor’s letter was read on the floor of the State House of Assembly during his emergency session, yesterday. 