Governors have expressed divergent views on the growing clamour for the establishment of state police. They spoke yesterday after an expanded National Security Council (NSC) meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari and the service chiefs and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors’ parley in Abuja. In an interaction with State House correspondents after the parley, Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, said that the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) was yet to take a decision on state police. But the PDP governors, who started a meeting on Thursday night till yesterday morning in Abuja, endorsed the creation of state police. They condemned the politicization of security apparatus and challenged the federal government to name states it accused of diverting local government’s funds. The governors also demanded the quick action on the N30, 000 National Minimum Wage Law and hinged their support for state police on the worsening security situation in the country. Governor Fayemi, who is the NGF chairman, said that the meeting was at their instance as governors of the 36 states collectively. He briefed journalists alongside his colleagues from Ebonyi State, David Umahi, Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Simon Lalong (Plateau), and Babagana Zulum (Borno). The NGF chairman explained that the meeting centered on the security situation in the country and concerns about what’s going on across the nation. He hinted that a special National Economic Council (NEC) meeting would be convened on security issues with a view to finding lasting solutions to them. He said: “We had a very fruitful meeting with Mr. President. Of course, he was not oblivious of the challenges, he gets security reports on a daily basis; he understands what the issues are. But we felt as chief security officers in our respective states, it was important for us to at least keep him abreast on the enormity or the challenges we are facing and also highlight the concerns of our citizens across board about rural banditry, farmers/herders’ clashes, kidnapping, militancy in the Niger Delta, insurgency,  and cultism. “We discussed extensively on these issues and looked at the various ways that we felt as governors we could assist Mr. President as the commander-in-chief to curb them. Of course, we were able to in the first instance look at the nexus between our economic and the security challenges, and the importance of tackling the causes of crime and not just crime on its own,” he stated. Fayemi added that the governors looked at the criminal justice system that appears to give room for impunity, noting that when people commit crimes and they are not punished effectively in accordance with the statutes it creates room for replicating such crimes. While stating that the president is also concerned about that, Fayemi said: “He (Buhari) made it clear to us that we all knew that he campaigned on the basis of security, economy and accountability and these things are still the most germane issues on his agenda. “And that he will also work with us to address questions of intelligence, of broadening community policing, of ensuring inter-service coordination among the various security agencies, of strengthening the criminal justice system, of working with our states innovatively on mechanism for addressing these issues. “Be it security trust fund that brings the public and the private players together in order to fund security and increase the resources available to security institutions. “Already, all of us are involved in funding. There is no governor that is not buying security vehicles, ammunition for police, giving allowances to our security agencies be they State Security Services (SSS), or police, or in some cases the military, where it is involved. It is just to ensure that we have a better and more coordinated mechanism for addressing this,” he said. The governor declared that “in conclusion we agreed that these issues will be more comprehensively dealt with at a special meeting of the National Economic Council (NEC) of which governors are members, presided over by the vice president.” Fayemi said that in areas where significant progress had been made, for example, in the North East zone, “we were clearly informed by the governor of Borno State that even when you resolve issues militarily, the stabilisation of the activities that must continue is critical to the eventual resolution of these challenges. “ He insisted that governors were yet to take a stand on state police. The governor said that “on whether state governors should be involved in state policing, the position of NGF on that is that we have not taken a stand because experiences vary. “There are governors and states where their experience does not necessarily lean towards policing by the states. There are also states where there are agitations for it, there are governors who have the views that that will work better in such states. And, of course, there are the economic issues relating to that. “Then, do we have the capacity at the state level to fund state police? These are all issues that will come to play when we get to the NEC meeting that has been called, particularly when there is a committee that is looking into it after the submission of the report on SARS. So, we will take all of these together,” he said. On the $1 billion drawn by the federal government from the Excess Crude Account for security last year, he said that “ the money may seem like a huge amount and it is, but when you are dealing with security issues, where a Tucano jet cost more than $50 million and you are getting say 20, you know how much that is already.” The PDP governors had a lengthy meeting which stretched from Thursday evening into the early hours of yesterday with the party’s leadership led by the national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, immediate past Senate President Bukola Saraki, former House of Representatives Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara and chairman of the PDP Board of Trustees, Senator Walid Jibrin. The parley which was held at the Bayelsa State Government Lodge, Maitama, Abuja, saw the newly elected governors under the party joining their returning colleagues to deliberate on issues affecting the country and the PDP. In a communique read by the chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum and Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, the governors demanded a review of the current revenue sharing formula. They said: “we dealt with the allegation of alleged diversion of local government funds by state governments. And we condemned it in very strong term, we as governors on the platform of the PDP want to make it clear that no PDP governor is involved in this allegation of diverting local government funds for whatever purpose. “In our case, the reverse is the case. It is the state governments that have been supporting and subsidising funding for the local governments. So, we call on the federal government and the agency in charge to name the state governments and tell us the date and the people who were in charge at the time this diversion took place.” They further declared their eagerness to pay the new minimum wage and tasked the federal government to expedite the process of presenting a bill to that effect. “We are very eager as PDP governors to implement and pay the N30,000 minimum wage that the federal government announced. We want to do so to alleviate the plight of the long suffering Nigerian workers who have been underpaid for long. And the workers who are currently groaning in economic hardship as a result of what has gone wrong with the economy since the All Progressives Congress (APC) government took over. “So, we call on the federal government to expedite the process of presenting a bill to that effect. And also we call for a review of the revenue sharing formula.” LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that President Buhari on April 18 this year signed the minimum wage bill into law. The forum condemned the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC’s) closure of Daar Communications, saying it was a “shocking intolerance and acts of repression against the media.” Besides the host, Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, the meeting was attended by Okowa, Governors Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Darius Ishaku (Taraba), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Ahmad Fintiri (Adamawa),  Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Udom Emmanuel (AkwaIbom), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo), Bello Mohammed Matawalle (Zamfara), and the deputy governor of Benue State. 