In commemoration of the birthday day of erstwhile Minister of Transportation, Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, the Israel Ibeleme Foundation, owned by Ameachi’s aide and gospel artist, Steve Crown have pledged to sponsor students from the FCT School for the Blind Children. Speaking at the school, when Israel Ibeleme, presented items such as; beverages, noodles, yams, toiletries and many more to the students and staff of the school, he stated that his gesture was a way of showing appreciation for their prayers and support in the just concluded general elections after the minister visited and sort their prayers for success. He explained that Amaechi had before the elections, appealed for prayers from the staff and students of the school for a successful 2019 elections and his party emerged victorious. Meanwhile, a guest of honour and Gospel Artist, Steve Crown, who took special interest in the musical rendition of the students, offered to give musical sponsorship to some of them who are interested in music. He stated that it was a privilege to be in the midst of future leaders of the world and not just Nigeria, expressed excitement and amazement at the performance of the students. “It won’t be the last time I will be here, and being in the music field and having listened to the children, I am amazed at their coordination in music and I congratulate them for a good job. “I will sponsor those interested in music to do a song, they will work together and go to the studio and produce the song, so they can be a blessing to the society. “I was listening to them singing, these kids are really talented and need all the encouragement they can get. Doing this will make them inspire others because I see greatness in them. The best thing to do is to encourage them in my own field which is music, I want to put them together to bless people”, he said Also speaking, the Principal, FCT School for the Blind Children, Abdulrazzaq Suraju, said the children are prayer warriors and should be remembered urged every one present to carry the information of the children’s abilities to the world at large so help can get to them. He also solicited for assistance in donation of chairs, payment of PTA fees, provision of foods among others.