Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel has restated his commitment  to promote excellence and merit in appointments and has warned Akwa Ibom stakeholders and political leaders to refrain from putting pressure on him over political appointments. Speaking, yesterday, during the swearing in of newly sworn in Head of Civil Service and Permanent Secretaries at the Banquet Hall of the Government house, Governor Emmanuel said he may retain most members of the immediate past Executive Council because of the numerous projects he needs to complete under their supervision. “Don’t come and tell me that this person didn’t work during the election and should be dropped, because everybody worked and they all supported me.” “If you attempt to blackmail anybody, that will even spur me to reappoint that person.” The governor, who charged the newly sworn in Head of the Civil Service, Elder Effiong Edem Essien and permanent secretaries, to raise the bar of excellence in the discharge of their responsibilities, also announced that more permanent secretaries would soon be appointed. “Like I always say, nobody should send me text to lobby for any candidate because that is the surest route to the disqualification of such a person.” “Once I receive a name of any director from a stakeholder, it means the person is not qualified and lacks self-confidence.” He expressed his desire to spread the appointments across the Local Government Areas of the State, but decried the absence of qualified personnel from some Local Governments Areas, an issue he said should be of serious concern to stakeholders in such areas. While congratulating the new appointees, the Governor expressed optimism in their ability to deliver and further urged them to exhibit a high level of professionalism and tolerance in the discharge of their responsibilities. He urged the new Head of Civil Service, Elder Effiong Edem Essien  to maintain a good relationship between the labour unions and government for a robust industrial harmony in the state. The Governor further used the occasion to appreciate the immediate past Head of Service, Mrs Ekerebong Akpan for her meritorious services to the State and the improvement witnessed in the State’s Civil Service. Governor Emmanuel said Mr Effiong Edet Ekpenyong, Mr Inyang Inyang Jameson and Mr Imoh Bassey Inyang, the new Permanent Secretaries, were selected on merit from among the various directors and deputy directors who he personally interviewed. He further charged the newly sworn in Permanent Secretaries to abide by the oaths they have taken and ensure that their personal interest does not override the discharge of their official duties. “People should understand that appointments as permanent secretaries are not promotions that come automatically because one has reached Grade Level 17, and so cannot get to everybody,” the Governor stated. The newly inaugurated Head of the State Civil Service, Elder Effiong Essien who spoke with Journalists shortly after his swearing in, appreciated Governor Emmanuel for finding him worthy for the appointment and pledged to selflessly discharge his duties in the interest of the state. The event was attended by the deputy governor,  Mr Moses Ekpo, the state PDP chairman, Obong Paul Ekpo, former governor, Idongesit Nkanga, the PDP national legal adviser, Barr Emmanuel Enoidem, past and present government officials as well as families and friends of those appointed.