The group managing director, Dr Maikanti Baru, yesterday, disclosed that the corporation is working towards attracting $7 billion as foreign direct investment (FDI) before the year runs out. According to him, the corporation has in the past three years consistently grew its FDI, saying that $2.6 billion was attract in 2017 while the figure rose to $3 billion in 2018. Dr Baru stated this while addressing the national executives of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) who paid him a courtesy call at the NNPC Towers in Abuja. It would be recalled that the NUJ had honoured Dr Baru with the Distinguish Friend of the Media Award at the 2019 Press Freedom Award in May. Speaking of the FDI target, Baru said, “In 2017 we attracted $2.6bn , in 2018 we attracted about $3bn at the moment some of our directors are not here they are out there source for some funds we are targeting about $7bn in terms of foreign investment.” The GMD told the visiting team that since he assumed office in July 2016, he and his management team has continued to focus on how to increase the nation crude production capacity. “Since we resume office in July 2016 we have focused on increasing the nation’s crude oil and gas production. We have been able to raise production that was at a low range of 1.5 million barrels per day (mbpd) has continued to raise. As at the end of 2018 we have grown crude oil and condensate production to 2.1mbpd and as at this morning the figure currently stands at 2.3mbpd,” he said. Baru further revealed that the introduction of the Direct-Sale-Direct-Purchase (DSDP) scheme of petroleum product supply has saved $2.2 billion. Speaking on the effort to ensure low cost of crude oil production, Dr. Baru said the corporation in collaboration with it partners engaged in exploration of crude oil are targeting reducing the cost of production to $20 per barrel this year. Baru further disclosed that the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), a subsidiary of NNPC which is engaged in oil and gas exploration is currently the major supplier of gas to the country’s power sector. “NPDC has become the main supplier of gas to the power sector supplying about 300 million standard cubic gas per day that is about 80 per cent of the gas requirements of the national gas need.” Earlier, the NUJ team led by its president, Mr Chris Isiguzo commended the GMD for the transformations he has brought into the operations of the corporation. In his speech, Mr Isiguzo noted Dr Baru and his team has brought transparency to the operations of NNPC through the publication of its financial performance monthly.In another development, the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, of NNPC, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, has decried incessant blockades of the corporation’s head office by people living with disabilities, saying the individuals involved should learn to transmit their concerns to the corporation through appropriate channels. This is contained in a statement he issued yesterday where he stated that the action of the group was unbecoming. According to him, the repeated obstructions were inimical to the daily business of the corporation, given the national oil company’s contribution to the coffers of the three tiers of government in the country. The NNPC spokesperson explained that the corporation was a disability-friendly company which has in its employ persons with disability and had equally made specwial provisions for this group in its on-going recruitment exercise. He stated that while employing persons with disability was a corporate policy of NNPC, however, such employment offers must pass through acceptable processes and procedures. Mr Ughamadu cautioned the protesters against further siege on the premises of NNPC.