Shareholders of Eterna Plc, have commended the performance of the company and payment of a total dividend of N326.036 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. At the company’s 26th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, shareholders gave their approval to the dividend, representing 25 kobo per ordinary share. They stated that, “We are impressed with the record performance and the balance sheet. We are indeed happy that Eterna is paying dividend amid the tough challenges facing downstream operators in this country. It shows that the board and management of the company hold every shareholder in high esteem.” Addressing shareholders at the AGM, chairman of Eterna Plc, Alhaji Lamis Dikko, said that “For the most of 2018, the petroleum industry’s primary actor continued to interfere in determining market prices for regulated and unregulated petroleum products. This interference with the attendant advantage that the prime actor has over other market players led to unpredictability in the market and shifting of entrepreneurship in the downstream sector of the oil and gas industry.” He explained that the company achieved consolidated operating revenue of N251.8 billion in 2018 in comparison with N173 billion in 2017, representing an increase of 45.57 per cent. “The gross profit however decreased by 27 per cent. This was primarily due to the high cost of doing business in Nigeria, unprecedented high cost of landing petroleum products and thinning margins on our product lines. Profit -before – tax declined by 29 per cent reflective of the reduced margins and increased cost of operations. “In view of the company’s performance in the year under review the board recommended a dividend of 25 kobo per ordinary share. The proposed dividend amounts to N326.036 million. We remain appreciative of your trust in our ability to keep the promises that we have made to you,” he said. The chairman of the company, stated that “We are on course with our five-year strategic plan, designed to take our company to higher levels of success. As part of executing the plan, we acquired 14 additional retail outlets in 2018. “We are consistently measuring our performance against set targets and the board is providing oversight to ensure that management delivers on the plans. “Our company is committed to maintaining cordial relationships with all host communities including youth groups, women groups, community development groups and paramount rulers of the communities where we carry out our operations. We ensure that our operations positively impact the communities. “Our operations are devoid of any form of community/youth restiveness and we continue to maintain a very peaceful and enabling work environment for the staff and contractors.” He stated that the company has been re-certified under the NIS ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Standard, saying that the re-certification further validates our company’s adherence to global best practices in our processes and procedures. According to him, the company would continue to provide high quality products and services that meet and exceed the expectations of customers, thereby creating sustainable value to all its stakeholders. On the future outlook, Dikko said that “We are committed to achieving our set goals and delivering excellent service to our customers and returns to our shareholders. “We will continue to pursue promising opportunities that we see and position ourselves for growth, knowing that with your support, we can surmount all obstacles and achieve our set objectives.” Also, the company said that it would continue to ensure that its products are the best available in the market using modern and efficient manufacturing processes, continues to invest in research and development. On the fuel subsidy case, Eterna stated that “In previous years, we informed you that one of the challenges facing our company was the criminal charge by the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in respect of petroleum subsidy claims and the Nigerian government had alleged that our company was complicit in making false claims for petroleum subsidy, “The charge filed by the EFCC in respect of the transactions is on-going before the Lagos State High Court. Our company remains resolute in using available legal means to resolve the issues.” The company reiterated of not receiving any illegal benefits from subsidy claims and will continue to take all necessary steps to defend its interest. Eternal was incorporated in Nigeria as a private liability company in 1989. In 1997, it became a public company and its shares which are currently quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) were first listed in August 1998. The company manufactures, imports and sells lubricating oils and petrochemicals; the company imports and sells bulk petroleum products including Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), Low Pour Fuel Oil (LPFO), Base Oils and Bitumen, among others.