ANDY ASEMOTA in this report captured the mood of persons internally displaced by activities of bandits in Katsina state when the wife of the president, Mrs Aisha Buhari, brought succour to them at their camp. Katsina State is one of the states in the north-western part of the country facing the devastating effects of banditry. Not much was known about the people affected by the violence in the state until the President’s wife, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, visited the victims of the vicious attacks with relief materials. Even though the bandits had killed hundreds and rendered many homeless in Batsari, Kankara, Danmusa and Faskari local government areas of the state for months, the plight of the people received less attention until the Yar Gamji attack in Batsari, which left no fewer than 18 persons dead, left many others with  various degrees of injuries. The people of Batsari gave a good account of themselves by conveying the dead bodies of the victims to Government House and Emir’s Palace in Katsina in protest. The state government in a swift reaction cancelled all activities except the mandatory swearing-in ceremony lined up for May 29, 2019 inauguration of Governor Aminu Bello Masari for a second term in office in order to mourn the dead and in sympathy with the people of the state, especially the victims of the dastardly acts by the bandits. The Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumin Kabir Usman, and his Daura counterpart, Alhaji Umar Faruk Umar, whose relation and Magajin Garin Daura, Alhaji Umar Uba, is still in the hands of kidnappers for over a month now, also cancelled the Sallah festivities to mark this year’s Eid-el-fitr in the state. Although the decisions were gladly welcomed.  That was not in any way enough to stop the killings, kidnapping, cattle rustling and banditry in parts of the state. it however no doubt reduced the tempo of attacks and brought the ugly situation to national and international domains. A prime figure among several public spirited Nigerians who have identified with the ordeals of the victims of bandits’ attack in Katsina state lately is Hajiya Aisha Buhari and the wives of former governors of Nasarawa, Bayelsa, Adamawa and Akwa Ibom States respectively. Though, a number of women leaders were said to have contributed to the relief materials disbursed by the wife of the president to the about 26,000 victims of bandits’ attacks in the state on Saturday, 1st June, 2019. Items donated by the President’s wife to (IDPs) at Gidan Baki in Katsina metropolis and Batsari Local Government secretariat for the pauperized victims from Batsari, Kurfi, Faskari, Danmusa, Jibia, Safana and Kanakara Local Government Areas of the state included rice, milk, sugar and clothes among others. Mrs. Buhari assured the people of federal government’s determination to assist vulnerable Nigeria through diverse interventions including about N500 billion approved for National Social Investment Programme (N-SIP) to support poor people including those devastated by banditry. Her concern that only a few in the country had benefitted from the N-SIP was justified as thousands of women in the IDPs camp said they were left out of the present administration’s march towards shared prosperity which seeks to empower the poor. She tasked the N-SIP to as a matter of urgency come to the aid of the men and women because their situation is quite worrisome. According to her, the people of the state despite the harsh condition of many turned out en masse during the last general elections hence all relevant agencies owed it a duty to assist in reducing their plights. She explained that the people of the state gave over one million votes to the President at the poll hence deserved to be assisted facing the challenges beyond their means. Her words: “We are calling on Social Investment Programe to come to Katsina State and help them (IDPs and others) with N10, 000 each. They are really in need. This is a state where we got 1.2 million votes free of charge; we did not pay any money for them to vote for us, they voted for us out of trust and they need to be taken care of. Whatever is due to them, they need to get it; we don’t need to fight for it.” She expressed further concern that the magnitude of intervention required by the victims was beyond what the state government could handle alone, saying “we need them (federal agencies) here more than ever.” There was jubilation among the women when she directed not only the N-SIP but the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and the National Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons to rise up to the challenges that had befallen the victim of bandits’ attacks. She noted that well-meaning Nigerians had for long time hoped to see an end of the frequent bandits’ attacks, adding that it is necessary to degrade the criminals before they end the civil population in that part of the state and beyond. Hajiya Buhari also challenged security chiefs to quickly end the banditry and other security challenges anywhere they reared their heads in the country. Earlier, wife of the state governor, Hajiya Hadiza Masari, represented by the immediate commissioner for health in the state, Hajiya Mariatu Bala Usman, expressed gratitude to Hajiya Buhari and others for donating relief materials to the needy in the bandits ravaged areas of the state. Hajiya Masari, who urged the IDPs to accept their fate as an act of God, appealed to all stakeholders not to relent in their efforts at addressing the current situation. The chairman of Batsari Local Government Area Transition Committee, Alhaji Mannir Muazu Rumah, said he was optimistic that kidnapping, killings, cattle rustling and banditry may soon be a thing of the past in the area. According to him, recent efforts of the military and other security agencies showed they had woken up from their slumber by taking the fight to the bandits in their hideouts, saying, “I can see peace returning to our communities.” One of the IDPs and a house wife, Karima Lawal Ruma, praised the kind gesture of Hajiya Aisha Buhari and other dignitaries while maintaining their unflinching loyalty to the present administration. Another IDP, who escaped death with gunshot injuries, Mallam Salisu Bogobiri, also expressed gratitude to Hajiya Buhari for complementing the intervention of Governor Masari and some philanthropists that had shown much commitment to their welfare. “We were displaced by bandits from our communities but we were well received by individuals and groups so concerned about our condition,” he stated.