Dr Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu is the immediate past minister of state for petroleum resources. Until his appointment as minister, Kachikwu, a seasoned technocrat and key play in the oil and gas sector, was the Group Managing Director of the NNPC. In this interview with journalists, he speaks on the trajectory of Nigeria’s oil and gas sector in the last four years.  HENRY TYOHEMBA presents the excerpt Do you think you have set the industry right where it is now and is everything in place to take it to the next level? I think we have and one of the things we have done is to come up with policies that we believe will drive the sector forward. We passed the petroleum industry policy and we passed the gas policy. We have submitted the final copies of the fiscal policy, that wasn’t taken up unfortunately but the other two were. And those two policies basically encapsulate everything that needs to be done in each of those areas. The things that we have done around gas commercialisation programme came out from there, the refinery project that we want to kick off came out from there, infrastructure project came out from there, and Niger Delta militancy issues also came out from there. We have copious documents, which everybody is part and parcel of it by delivering one thing or another. So that helps, but more important is that we emphasised policies pass to the FEC so that we cannot walk away from them. We worked very laboriously with the national assembly on the passage of the bills because am a firm believer that ultimately the bills are key. The policies are fantastic but the bigger step is to get them into law. Unfortunately the very first one which is the model of legislation, that is the petroleum industry governance bill was not signed by the President for reasons of few amendments some of which we supported but that is being done by National assembly and likely should be ready. But that bill has struggled for over ten years. But this is the first assembly that is able to put it together in all its ramifications. If you listened to my clearance in 2015 at the senate, one of the questions I was asked was around that and I did said that petroleum industry bill as it was then known, was too political and there was need to break it down into specific areas and I mentioned about three-the fiscal, the business itself and then the organizational aspect. I think what they have done now is to break it into four. They obviously adopted that approach and we worked with them collectively to be where we are. And I know that today, most of the segments are ready. The fiscal is ready; the host community is ready and all of that. So to answer your question, I think we have position the sector in such away that there are places to leap from and the fact that there is a continuing government helps because if there is another person coming he might bring in new programme. So I think we are on track. What is delaying the rehabilitation of the refineries? Well, it is one area, which I think we did not deliver the mandate and I am bold enough to say that. Some people expressed views like: ‘Kachikwu failed to deliver on his five promises on refinery’. I think it is a misunderstanding of how the system works. I started with being the Group Managing Director and then Minister of state. At that point politically, most of the powers and work was centered around me and if you look at the refineries the first problem we had with the refinery was that they were not even performing at all as they were not even producing when I assumed office in 2015 and because of the apparent huge fuel scarcity, it was a major challenge for me because if I had to wait for vessels to arrive each time to meet the delivery timelines, we always had a problem. So I focused on how to get them kitted up, to at least begin no matter how little and all they were giving me was 1 million litres a day. That is something I don’t have to import. And so my target was to try and get over 5 million liters over the short time frame and how was I to do that? The pipelines that were supplying petroleum products, if you remember, had all been destroyed and they had then entered into a contract before we came in, to supply products by vessels. The cost of those vessels supplied was more than the value of the crude that was being supplied. It just didn’t make any financial sense. So with the president’s permission, I cancelled that contract and I challenged Nigerians who were in that contract to go and use their own money and repair the pipelines. If I watch them for three months and it works I will pay and give them maintenance contract. That was what happened. About three or five companies came together and they were selected after bidding. They went to use their own money and resuscitated all the pipelines we are talking about; the refineries then came to life. So by about February –March of 2016, the refineries began to produce, not obviously 90 per cent capacity but at least they were adding two to three million barrels. So we tried in that perspective in terms of getting the new drive. However, the years of turn around maintenance were a failed exercise, billions and billions have been spent and every time again, the things packed up. And for about eight years, no more turn around maintenance had seriously been done. NNPC simply by virtue of its operation kept charging money for repair of pipes, buying this and buying that, no integrated repair. So I went to the President and said look, what we need to do is to go out, we don’t have the money, to private sector people who are willing to come in and invest in the refineries, not as shareholders but on an incremental volume and I created a business model whereby if you repair a refinery and get it to about 90 per cent and move production from an average of 50 thousand barrels a day to about 300 thousand barrels, that uptake and the profit that will come out of that we use it to offset the loans that we are going to take over a period of four to five years. That was the next best situation but the best situation would have been just to sell the refineries, let the private sector get into it but there are lots of emotive issues involved in sales of refineries so I just said keep your assets let put money into it, bridge the asset and lets pay back the facilities and the president approved that but at that time I then left as GMD. NNPC owns the refinery and the Minister’s role is not to become the head of negotiation of how the refineries are done, that is not my work, my work is to push those policies, get them approved and make sure that they stay on track. As the chairman of the Board, I worked very hard in pushing NNPC on this unfortunately, it was not delivered. By December of last year when I got worried that we are not meeting the mandate of the refinery,  I then called a meeting trying to resolve the issues between investors themselves over contract issues and that was what I did but eventually NNPC still rejected the terms we agreed on so I don’t know what else I was supposed to do. But I think there is too much emphasis on the public sector refineries which is good thing but the future is not in the public sector refinery, the future is in the private sector refinery so what else did we do outside the public sector? We worked with Dangote, he nearly abandoned that project because of pricing issues, approval issue, support in terms of tariff, custom duties and all that. We worked assiduously and we set a timeline working with them as if it was a public sector refinery. There has never been that kind of cooperation before. If he delivers by first quarter of 2021, and I think he will, I think the government has delivered. It may not have delivered an investment but it created the enabling environment to push that investment to fruition. The modular refinery concept we put in place for the sake of peace in Niger Delta is working successfully. Three are near production points and about seven others are also coming up. If those ten come to fruition over the next two years, that is 200,000 barrels refining capacity. So I try to look at refining from the volume not from the physical asset and my target is to be able to take refining from what we had about 3000 barrels to over a million barrels of refine capacity everyday which is 600 hundred thousand from Dangote, about 200 hundred from Modular, about 400 from our public sector refinery once we get that done. So refining on a longer-term basis, is an export earner, we need to be able to supply to the rest of West Africa, east and some part of South Africa. So I think that is on the right trajectory and I think going forward we need to go back to that same model of getting the private sector and a find a way to resolve the terms. As part of those efforts as you have seen in the last few months, we talked to the gulf countries, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, China trying to see whether they will be interested in coming in, both proposals are for greenfield refinery building and for the brown field refinery support. Their response is very fantastic and we are basically at the threshold of signing MoU with Saudi Arabia, which will cover not just refinery but pipelines, gas solutions and potential energy. . . On the issue of illegal refineries … The problem with illegal refineries is not only the fact of the quality deficiency of the product but also the fact that the crude is stolen. That is what it is, from breaking of pipelines to all that stuff. It is not something we can encourage. Can we absorb those who are doing it into the modular refinery concept? Yes that is part of the plan because it is easier to bring them up than let them do what they are doing. Is burning and destroying the refinery the best way to go? No because it has environmental hazard and what we just need to do is to be more efficient in terms of correction. Right now, if you go to a lot of enforcement teams, vessels of stolen and seized crude sub-refinery products are hanging in there and sipping into the water as it were. The reason that was is that the justice system will insist that you leave the evidence intact. So you can’t touch it otherwise you cant prove your case. It is absolutely ridiculous. So we are working with the judiciary to see if there is a way to capture this electronically or is there a pre-inspection that can be done by the judiciary to put that into a database so that we can then take off the crude and the seized products to refinery to be further processed and marketed as the case may be. And people often ask does the modular refinery solve the problem? It cost may be between 10-20 million dollars to set up the modular refinery. Government is not going to give everybody 20 million dollars to set up modular refinery to stop illegal refinery. What government has done in terms of specific is first, identify that these individuals need to be encouraged to move up to other things.  So there is an economic model part. You can decide to go into the distribution by getting trucks and all that and government will support you to do that. How far with the Project 100 and what forms of empowerment are envisaged? On project 100, what we are specifically looking at is how do we deepen Nigerians’ interest in the business because the more you do the more people get employed. So we were given 200 million grants to be able to give facilities to those who can put in capital and have serious joint venture relationship that will help them move forward. So there is a bit of financial and engineering support, we can help you look at what you strategies are, help you fine-tune them and help you get the approvals you need. We are getting them business opportunities. So as NNPC is awarding contracts, its looking at these one hundred people who have been identified and say look there is a pipeline contract that is being awarded here, how do they benefit? The whole essence of project 100 is how to deepen Nigerians’ interest in the business because the more you do, the more people are employed and they get away from some of these illegalities that we see around. The ministry is more interested in what benefits get to Nigerians not just doing the policies and that is the whole concept of Project 100. In the first instance you selected 60 so there is the balance of 40… Project 100 is not really about one hundred companies. It is more than one hundred opportunities as there could be thousand and there is no limit to it. That is why we engaged one NGO to set the parameters, is your management credible, are you involved in legal business, what kind of funding do you have and how much have you put in, have you identified the business track, do you have the right sort of training? Once you pass that, you get into project 100. So if we find 1000 project 100 companies, that is fantastic. We will not limit it to 100. All you need do is to look at what the conditions are and find if you qualify. You then write to NCDMB who will come in and inspect, evaluate it and once you meet the criteria, you get selected. What I have set for them is that in the next 10 years, I like to see this country build most of its oil facilities so all of them will be working towards that. Some are going to enter into joint ventures with foreign entities. Some Nigerians still believes that what is bandied around as what we produce in terms of barrels per day may not be a true reflection… why is it so difficult for us to have meter? On transparency, this sector has done phenomenally well in all the ratings between 2015 and now. There are few pockets of areas we have not done well. But the concepts we introduced in 2015 including having transparent contracts basically saved huge amount of money. In terms of volume produced, today, using the DPR database, which is covering a lot of the fields, we can actually tell you online, on time, what is being produced at the minutes. What I like to do however is to interrogate the data. We just launched it about 2 months ago. We are tracking you when you produced to when you put in the tank to when you deliver to when it is discharged. So all along the crude oil track we are fine. The refined product track is what am asking that we need to go and capture in the same manner so we can tell for instance,  are we really consuming fifty or sixty million litres? Am also trying to interrogate the data. Issuance of oil block… First, this government has not given out any oil block. The whole idea was that the President believes that we should first clean the sector before we start dishing out political patronage. His transparency helped in that. So we are not guilty of allocating oil blocks. In terms of what has been done in the past, my philosophy is a little bit different. I am a private sector person. Giving oil blocks to Nigerians is not a bad thing, who else should get it? Are they the right kind of Nigerians? Oil Block is a factor of some level of connection and it also involves some level of funding because you got to have money to develop it, you need connection to be able to reach out to joint venture partners to give the technical skills that are required. All over the world, those sorts of opportunities are given to individuals who are at the upper echelon because they have the money, the reach and the connection. If you do not fall into that category, you wont be able to meet the requirement that DPR sets. So I do not think that is a bad thing but what we actually need to do to make sure that when they do get it, they actually pay the right royalty, taxes and all that and that the opportunity is open to all Nigerians. I have seen some of the people who are working blocks today but they were not there fifty years ago; nobody knew them. They are young people who came in, have some good JV structures, jumped into the field, made a few misses here, you know a lot of them came in through back-in rise to oil companies and then make their own money from there and they begin to apply for oil blocks. So ultimately the laws are open. Now, what are we doing to ensure a situation where it is not preserved to only those connected? If you look at one of the things we did with the marginal fields was to develop the basic outline of the rules that should apply to the fields. Why does somebody qualify for marginal field? Technical skills, financial capability and work programme that monitor their efficiency. And if somebody has done well at his own marginal field, he qualifies to get more consideration to gain more and if you fail from the one that we gave you, we should be looking at how to retrieve it back. How many oil licences are due for renewal? I don’t have the details of blocks that are due for renewal off head but we have an early renewal programme which I put in place which raised close to 1.8 billion for the government and most of those have been renewed and the ones that are within the frame of up to 2019 till 2020 and 2021 are the ones we captured by early renewal and the ones that are after that we have not done anything about them but I do not have the number of the early renewal. The essence of the early renewal is to get money because the government needed money. On Reserves… In terms of reserves, the things you need to grow reserve are adequate legislation and predictability of the terms, which is why the PIGB is fine.  Right now we have a twenty-year time structure so we need to be firm because when you start reviewing your laws nobody will complain, so certainty of time is very important. Secondly,  is speed of approvals. I brought  our approval from two-year threshold, which is what it was down to, my target then was six months so at least we achieved about twelve months and we still have some weeks to go. You know every delay has a cost implication and we have to get approvals quicker. Another thing of course is that you have to be an investor friendly nation. Nigeria is seen as a very difficult investment destination. Things take too long to happen here. There is too much politics out of investment and you cannot predict where it is going to end and the oil is just somebody’s future dream line in the expectations that down there is something good and you rely on data generated by circle studies but there is no certainty, it is basically gamble. So if you are going to deal with gamble and then deal with uncertain investment environment, then it is a recipe for anarchy. So the reason why you are having places like Ghana doing well is that they are very predictable and very fast and there is less politics to it and that is what we need to do to make this country, despite its huge resource which is the best attraction, be somewhere that an investor wants to go. The reality is that Nigeria sometimes is its own best or its own worst enemy. We need to sit down let the sector run professionally… those are the things we need to grow our reserves. Can we do it, yes we can. In three to four years, we can grow our barrels to about three million barrels. But somebody has to deliver the barrels. There has to be a manager who is in charge. It is a coordinated discipline approach and we need to give a lot of leeway to whoever manages this sector. On NNPC listing In terms of NNPC listing, listing is not a certificate giving you free. You have to qualify for it so we are not here to ride for listing.  There is still a lot more work to be done. What I did in 2016 was top ask the management to adopt a prepared to listing management formula which says what it takes to get listed-transparency, audited report, good internal control and that was part of my driving efficiency. So we adopted that and that was the channel through which I draw transparency and these are things you need to do to prepare for listing. So we are not yet ripe for listing but at least at that time we adopted the prepared-for-listing management concept and that helped us drive and I am hoping that they will continue to drive because this could be a very successful one if we run it well. PMB And Oil Block Yes I said the president does not have an oil block, he has not awarded one and has never ask for one. He is very transparent about that so you have to give him kudos because he has also never sent note directing that we give to the third party so what I know is that there is high level of transparency under Buhari. There is so much controversy over Ogoni clean up. The government has voted money to clean up the place. What exactly is going on? There is still work to be done. We put money to clean but you know a lot of money is coming from the private sector, government is contributing some and Shell is also contributing. The clean-up has not taken up fully the way it should because the modalities are being worked out… My conversation with the Ogoni community shows that there is threshold of wanting to know if people are being transparent. They are not saying no we will never go back; they are saying let’s sit down and have MoU.