Victims of fire disaster in Magali community of Ngaski local government area of Kebbi state have received relief assistance from Actionaid Nigeria and Active Support for Rural People Initiative (ASURPI). The fire incident occurred on 28th of April,2019 razing the entire Magali community which destroyed both their houses, properties including animals and farm produce, although no life was lost in the inferno. In his address before the commencement of the distribution of the relief materials to the victims of the fire incident, the Chief Executive Officer of ASURPI, Comrade Ibrahim Ngaski while sympathizing with the victims said before the relief assistance was dispatched by Actionaid Nigeria and its partner in Kebbi, ASURPI, needs assessment to know the immediate needs and also know the exact number of households affected were carried out. During the intervention, food and non-food items were given to the victims. He said ” Actionaid and ASURPI are here to assist you in view of the hardship you are facing. “But the relief assistance is not commiserate with loses you have incurred and this is not compensation but rather assistance to alleviate your suffering”, he said. The CEO also advised them to get into contact with their elected representatives to demand for social services. Earlier, in her address to the victims, the representative of Actionaid Nigeria, Mrs. Hajara Opaoluwa Adamu also commiserated with the victims on behalf of Actionaid Nigeria Country Director. She said Actionaid always want to see a society free from poverty in which all people have access to equitable share of resources and justice. She reiterated that the NGO always want to work with the poor and marginalised people in the communities across Nigeria with women, children and people with disability as priority. She advised women to always be part of the community decision making so that their voices can be heard Items donated included, rice, millet, cooking oil, jerry cans, non-collapsible bucket with lid, bathing soap, blankets, reusable sanitary pad, laundry soap, mats, plastic cups, solar lantern and female undergarments. One of the beneficiary, Sahura Shehu, 34yrs and a mother of 4 thanked the NGOs for their intervention.