President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday approved the appointment of Mele Kolo Kyari, as the new group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The President also approved the appointment of seven new chief operating officers with a representative from each geopolitical region of the country to oversee the various arms of the corporation. The new GMD according to the corporation, would effectively take over the office on July 8, 2019, as Dr. Maikanti Baru would retire statutorily on July 7, 2019. Until his new appointment, Kyari, who hails from Borno State was the group general manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division of the NNPC. Kyari, since May 13, 2018, doubles as Nigeria’s national representative to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). According to a statement from NNPC, Kyari would be bringing to his new appointment as the 19th GMD of the NNPC, more than 27 years of experience in the various value chains of the petroleum industry. “Under his watch, the crude oil marketing division of the NNPC has recorded noticeable transformation in the management and sales of the various Nigeria’s crude oil grades via an infusion of transparency and automation of the processes,” the NNPC said in his official profile on its website. A geologist, Kyari is known in the oil industry as a crude oil marketer with outfield pedigree in petroleum economics and crude oil and gas trading. A 1987 Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) degree holder in Geology and Earth Science from the University of Maiduguri, Kyari did his National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) as a Well Site Geologist with the Directorate of Foods, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFRRI) between 1987 and 1988. Between 1988 and 1991, he worked with the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency before joining the NNPC subsidiary, Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL), where he worked as a Seismic Data Processing Geophysicist in the Data Processing Department. In 1998, Kyari was appointed the exploration geophysicist, Production Sharing Contract (PSC) of the National Petroleum Investments Management Services (NAPIMS) until 2004 when he became the Abuja operations manager of NAPIMS. In 2006, he was appointed the supervisor, PSC, Crude Oil Marketing Department (COMD) of the NNPC, from where he rose to the position of head, and later manager of production contracts management of the COMD between 2007 and 2014. Other appointments also approved by President Buhari to run the affairs of NNPC from July 9, include: Mr. Roland Onoriode Ewubare, who hails from the south-south region of the country and is appointed chief operating officer, Upstream. Until his new appointment, Ewubare was group general manager, National Petroleum Investments and Management Services, a corporate services (NAPIMS) unit of the corporation headquartered in Lagos. Before his NAPIMS’ appointment, he was managing director of the Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL), a seismic data acquisition company of NNPC based in Benin.  Engr. Mustapha Yinusa Yakubu, hails from north – central region of the country and is newly -appointed as chief operating officer, Refining and Petrochemicals. Until his new appointment he was the managing director of National Engineering and Technical Company Limited (NETCO). Engr. Yusuf Usman hails from north-east and is chief operating officer, Gas and Power. Until his new appointment, Usman was senior technical assistant to the group managing director of the corporation. Ms. Lawrencia Nwadiabuwa Ndupu, from south- east, is newly – appointed as chief operating officer, Ventures. She, until her new appointment, was the group general manager, NNPC Oil Field Services, established to provide technical services to players in the Industry. Mr. Umar Isa Ajiya, from north- west region of the country who holds the new position of chief financial officer, was until his recent appointment, the managing director of Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) of NNPC, a downstream arm of the corporation. Prior to holding the position as the managing director of PPMC, he was the corporation’s group general manager, Corporate Planning and Strategy (CP&S). Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji, who is from the south- west region of the country, holding the new appointment of chief operating officer, Downstream, was until his new appointment the managing director of NNPC Retail Limited, a downstream marketing company of NNPC. Prior to his position as the MD of the downstream marketing company, he was general manager, Transformation Department, a think-tank unit of the corporation. Mr. Farouk Garba Said, who hails from north- west and holds the new position of chief operating officer, Corporate Services, was the group general manager, Engineering and Technology Division of NNPC. Said would be taking over from the present occupier of the office who retires statutorily on June 28, 2019. The new appointees have been directed to work with the current occupiers of the various offices by President Buhari till  July 7, 2019, to ensure a smooth transition on July 8, 2019, when their appointments would take effect.