Barrister Mike Igini is the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Akwa-Ibom State. In this interview with some journalists, he recounts his ordeals before and after the general election and why he chose to be upright despite the challenges. There were repeated calls from individuals and groups to redeploy you from Akwa-Ibom State before the general elections, why were you at the receiving end of those bashings? Indeed, there were intense efforts, that were not disguised and it is most unfortunate that candidates in an election want to pick and choose who should be the umpire to conduct their election, many even boasted in the print and the electronic media that they will not only do it but even assured their followers that they should just go to sleep that it has been concluded because that was the only way they could get a pliable umpire that will release election result sheets to them to write before the election. The brazen way this was done even in the mainstream media shows how low people who put themselves forward to serve the public have sunk, it shows disdain for the voting public. I found it all amusing that despite my clear message severally to all that in the 2019 election ballot papers and result sheets would be delivered in the 2,980 pollings of the 31 LGAs of Akwa lbom state and must be audited by party agents and duly accredited observers as a condition precedent before the commencement of the poll, those who are used to writing election results in the past were still determined to go that route and that was the reason for the call for my removal.  I must commend the Chairman of INEC for standing firm to his obligations,  but he reassured me that I should not be distracted but rather I should concentrate on my work, his principled position re-assured me of the independence and autonomy of the Commission. Politicians and Nigerians must understand the powers of constitutional prescriptions, those powers have provided strong incentives for the electoral umpire that is willing to abide by the laws to be fair to all candidates at elections, this is why we have strongly advocated for a constitutional provision followed by a legislative Act for an Electoral offenses Institution which will help to directly fumigate the impunity that currently fuels electoral offenses. If we do that we will greatly mitigate much of the electoral banditry that occurs around our elections and we can then face their sociological roots. What was the reaction of the INEC Chairman to the bid to remove you from Akwa-Ibom? l personally commend him for his leadership, you must remember that during the heat of the elections, he also faced calls for his own removal, so I am certain he had a perspicacious understanding of what some people were trying to do to undermine the elections in Akwa lbom state. what matters most for me was the fact that despite signs that some individuals within the Commission were working with politicians to undermine our collective efforts to give meaning and purpose to the ballot, the Chairman was resolute about defending the autonomy of the Commission, for that, I am profoundly grateful for his support and understanding. His wisdom on the matter made it clear to me about the religious advice that, there will be temptation but the challenge is how you respond to it. In my view, he exuded exemplary great wisdom and responded in the larger best interest of safeguarding the independence of the Commission for the good of our democratic process. And so shall he be remembered whenever the history of what happened in Akwa lbom State will be written. How did you manage to deliver on Akwa-Ibom polls despite the clear challenges? It was a teamwork and the staff of the Commission and myself stayed on the course of fairness, professionalism, and impartiality. You see, when people realise that you are doing the right thing, they will follow your lead, regardless of how much noise and influence others bring to bear. When l arrived  Akwa-Ibom, a very controversial politician made a false claim against me  that I was deployed by the APC to come and dethrone the PDP in Akwa-Ibom, but after August 2018 following this up and down gale of defections, the same individuals now in the APC lied to them again that l am against the party and suddenly these members  were all over the place shouting that I was against them and in support of the PDP and must be removed from the state to pave way for their own kind of REC. If the Commission acted the way heads of key security agencies were changed at will based on the political interest and dictation of politicians, INEC would have had up to seven RECs before the 2019 election. How would such a situation engender voters’ confidence, trust and independence of the Commission? At all times, my main pre-occupation as an umpire is the process that must be transparent and credible that would enable voters to make their choices as the principal decider. In giving the voters voice through the ballot, my duty is to ensure that all parties had equal opportunity and equal chance for competition and participation. That was all we did in this state and nothing more. But it was alleged that while you played hide and seek with Akpabio, it was not so with Governor Emmanuel. In fact, APC alleged you are a PDP sympathiser? That is far from the truth, if you followed my antecedent in Cross River State, you will recall then that the PDP also alleged that I was an ACN sympathiser and even led protest to my office just as they did in Akwa lbom, they accused me of grooming opposition whatever that meant simply because l maintained that there must be equal opportunity for all the political parties. At the rally they organised before the 2011 election when president Jonathan came at the stadium, one after the other they accused me of supporting the then opposition party that is now the ruling party today without concrete evidence other than my insistence that only the might of the people that would determine the outcome of election in that state then and not federal might and as God would have it on that day, president Jonathan ignored all of them just as president Buhari also shun those who were after me instead of wooing voters to ensure victory at the polls. You know, in our environment, usually, the incumbent party do not want any opposition party to be strong enough to compete against them. l was accused of encouraging opposition parties in Cross River, It is an irony that the same opposition then now in power in this state and l must clarify here that it’s just a few individuals and not majority of the opposition members who now want election to be manipulated in their favour through pre-writing of election result and emphatically, l said No, it was not going to happen under my watch and that led to the uncommon noise and shouts for my redeployment from Akwa lbom. It is funny in this instance that the Party with the Federal leverages now thought I had sympathies for the opposition incumbent in the state. Why do people think that when you say no to an invitation to do what is wrong and unethical, there must have been yes to their opponent? My sympathy, in all instances, is to the unfettered freedom of the voters, a free and fair electoral process and a legitimate outcome. I have no reason to play hide and seek with any party, what is expected of them is a firm commitment to a free, fair and credible election by allowing the people of Akwa-Ibom and not INEC or selected proxies who repress voters to determine that outcome. We heard some persons threatened you over the last polls in the state, are you still under any threat? Indeed, there were many instances when open and veiled threats were made to my life and sometimes including planned kidnapping so that l will not preside over the conduct of the election in the state. The lowest point for me was the leaked audio tape that went viral of how a Governorship candidate planned to bomb my car and get me off the way to enable him and his team rig the election. Life is so cheap in our country today that people could sit down to plan how to eliminate other fellow human beings in the quest for public office that is transient; is that how bad our society has degenerated? The fact that these allegations were not put under investigative scrutiny and those involved questioned and made to face criminal prosecution is a sad commentary. Lies and innuendoes were circulated including the absurdity that l have a son-in-law who collected some huge amount of millions for me whereas my daughter is a small girl in secondary school and so l don’t have a son-in-law. It was on the basis of all these lies that they try tried to move the state against me for doing nothing and painfully those l thought knew me well enough having worked in their states and they never asked me to give them result sheets or recruit ad-hoc personnel for them, surprisingly led my persecution unjustly and others kept silent because of their new political friends. Worst still, they never bothered to hear from or consult with me on such groundless accusations but moved against me by merely hearing from one side.   Why do people easily come to the flimsy conclusion that because you refused to compromise with them, it then means that you have been compromised by their opponents? If there is any, just one politician who can come forward publicly that l sat with him or her to do anything for him or his party to win the election, he should tell Nigerians. All those who won the election in Akwa lbom, l don’t know them personally and l don’t have to know them, except where in recent times, in public places such as the airport a number of them introduced themselves as people who won elections. l don’t have their contacts nor do they have mine through which we had communicated either before, during or after the election. All that was required of us is providing equal chance and opportunity to all and that was what we did in Akwa Ibom state. What really prepared you in surmounting all your challenges especially the way you are performing your duties in Akwa-Ibom? Primarily, I am profoundly grateful to my parents, my first role models and uncles under whose tutelage and family ethos the virtues of fairness, rectitude, and truthfulness were instilled in us. This is why I have been pushing that our nation must do everything to rescue the family through a return to embracing and teaching the virtues of honesty, integrity, and trustworthiness. The family must be rescued from being destroyed by economic challenges,  the country we shall have in future will come from the aggregate of the family experiences of today, if we create deprived families, we harvest desperate and unethical citizens. The South West where I grew up in my early years also endowed me with a cultural environment of respect and tradition of resistance or opposition to what is unjust and unfair and combining that with the experiences of Sapele and Warri, Benin and back to South West all have a tremendous impact on my worldview and on so many things l do in life.  Finally, I also have to thank President Goodluck Jonathan and President Muhammadu Buhari, both of them did not know me personally but they appointed and re-appointed me from the first judgment they made about my character and record, to serve our country to the best of my ability, I cannot betray their trust. You were reported to have said that you came to Akwa Ibom to count ballot, not money? That is indeed a funny dimension, well I am sure they count ballots in Delta state where I come from, but how well they do so is for voters in the state to say. I can only speak for myself and as I repeatedly assured the people of Akwa-Ibom state, I am here to count their ballots as delivered in elections and not to count money delivered to buy votes by politicians. This terrible idea by some folks that everybody can be bought with money is simply not true. If one is placed in a position of honour and he decides to compromise it for money, where will he see honour to buy? What are your prescriptions for better elections by INEC in Nigeria? I have constantly advocated that we ensure there are legal consequences for electoral offenses in the form of jail terms, fines and even periodic ban from participation in elections, I have suggested that we should create a threshold for participation in state and federal elections for political parties without proscribing them, there is also the need to ensure that political parties submit a certified copy of their membership list and their guidelines for party nominations no later than 30days before any intra-party contest. These are my principal prescriptions, others I will reserve because they require more in-depth explanations and they are better proposed after the election tribunal matters are finally disposed of completely. You were quoted to have said that the electoral umpire cannot do favours or be seen to give assistance to political groups during elections; How do you mean? It is a travesty of public trust and indeed an anathema for an umpire to be seen to help or assist a contestant and worst still for a pecuniary reason. It’s contrary to the ethics of institution like INEC that should be neutral in all its actions and inactions as an umpire. The reason why an umpire should not do favours to any candidate, even if it is his father or mother, is that the process is meant to determine the verdict of the people and not the whims of the umpire. In retrospect, l will say that much damage has been done to the democratisation project in Nigeria, by people who see and have taken their appointment as election managers as avenues for dispensing patronage and favours for personal ends. While this may have helped to empower their friends and enrich them materially outside the legal expectation of the system, it has resulted in leadership aloofness, because the so-called ‘elected’  office holders who used such route, do not feel responsible, accountable or obligated to the people, resulting in the regression of our country in many developmental spheres. Just as it is often said that a corrupt judge is the greatest danger to the society, so also compromised election managers the greatest danger to democracy, because an election umpire is like a judge, he performs a quasi-judicial function, he presides over those who compete for power, who in turn preside over the values of society, therefore such people should not compromise the system, in fact the mere perception that such persons are corrupt is damaging to public confidence on the electoral process. The golden rule is absolute and unqualified neutrality so that citizens do not lose confidence in the institution of the state. 