The Diocesan Bishop of Egba, Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev. Emmanuel Adekunle has warned the new executive governor of Ogun state, Dapo Abiodun not to cast away all the “fathers-in-politics” that worked tirelessly towards ensuring his success at the poll. The clergyman emphasised that Abiodun greatly stands a better chance to benefit from relating with and seek their counsels rather than casting them away from his administration. Bishop Adekunle gave the warning in the sermon he delivered at the post – inauguration thanksgiving service held at the Cathedral of St. Peters Church, Ake, Abeokuta, the state capital. Preaching further at the event marking the end of the 10-day inauguration activities which had in attendance, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, former governor of the state, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, as well as that of the Cross Rivers State, Donald Duke, the clergyman warned the new Ogun governor-elect to be careful of his political peers as they are likely to become a “thorn in the flesh” of his administration. Declaring that he would not call them “god-fathers”, Adekunle noted that god-fathers and fair-weather friends always see politics as business and as such, unstable and flock the corridors of power “when it is sweet and roast”. Quoting from the Biblical Gospel according to St. Luke, Chapter 14, Adekunle charged the new governor not to severe his fellowship with God but make Him first in whatever his administration does, stressing that his becoming the governor of the state was by His grace. Declaring that  it is only God enthrones and dethrones leaders, the man of God also admonished Abiodun to allow all the tribulations, persecutions and humiliations he ender – went in the course of becoming the governor spur him towards doing well in office without any vendetta. The Bishop however, advised the new Ogun governor to radically transform the current disgraceful status of education in the state to an enviable class. While advocating for a return of mission schools to their original owners as well as building more classrooms, the Anglican Bishop also enjoined the governor to consider how to prioritize technical education, re-education of teachers in the state as well as making the retirees happy, bearing in mind that his parents too were teachers. But responding to the Bishop’s charges, the governor declared that he would not abandon any of the ongoing projects which his predecessor, Ibikunle Amosun could not complete. This he explained was borne out of the fact that tax payers’ money had been deployed towards those projects which award prices could be reviewed. The governor further assured that his administration would give rural, township and industrial roads a priority attention, in addition to the educational turn-arround of the state as well as the plans to providing the needed athmosfor Public Private Partnership (PPP) investment drive in the state. He assured that the planned state education summit as well as education master plan that would address the decadence in the sector and return the state to its enviable position will be given a priority. 