Special Almajiri schools built by the federal government in the north and handed over to some state governments for their management have been abandoned by the pupils, teachers and other workers due to neglect. Although the structures and other facilities in the schools are still in good shape, the pupils and workers have shunned some them due to poor maintenance by the affected states. In some states, the almajiri pupils have been transferred to public schools as the teachers abandoned the classrooms due to the non-payment of their salaries and absence of basic facilities such as water and electricity. In the more serious cases, security agents have turned the schools to “depots” for recovered rustled cattle. Some of the schools visited by LEADERSHIP were shut down by the state governments, with only security guards left to man them. Others have been taken over by weeds and serve as holding centres for recovered stolen animals, especially cows, sheep and goats. The almajiri school system was launched in 2011, the first began in 2012 when former President Goodluck Jonathan kick off the scheme to check begging and to provide Islamic and formal education for the street boys. The Jonathan administration had planned to integrate over 10 million almajiris into the formal schools school system. Its target was to establish 140 amajiri model boarding and day schools across the country. The neglect of the school came to limelight as President Muhammadu Buhari moves to ban almajiri system and provide formal education for the children, who mostly brought from remote villages to the urban and semi urban centres to acquire Arabic and Islamic education. As a result of the inability by their masters or teachers to meet their basic needs; the almijiris and made to cater for themselves through begging and engagement in menial jobs. President Buhari had on Thursday last week told state governors to be role models to their people by serving their interests, especially in the provision of free and compulsory basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age, including the almajiris. While inaugurating the National Economic Council (NEC) at the presidential villa, the president told that governors that his administration is working towards banning the almajiri system in the country. Briefing journalists after the NEC meeting, the national security adviser (NSA) , Babagana Mungono, said that the banning of almajiris and enrolling them in schools would stem the tide of insecurity in the country. He said that in line with Buhari’s appeal to the governors to “enforce very vigorously” free and compulsory basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age, efforts would be made to increase school enrolment for the almajiris. At the Tsangaya Model Boarding Primary School, Katsina, built by the Jonathan administration for the almajiris, cows, goats and sheep recovered from suspected cattle rustlers and bandits have taken over the premises and classrooms. The pupils of the schools were said to have been transferred to other schools in Katsina metropolis by the State Universal Basic Education Board. It was learnt that some staff were left in the school to prevent it from being vandalised by criminals. The facility, some residents and officials had become a “temporary depot” where animals recovered by security agents from rustlers and bandits are kept until they are evacuated by their owners or the relevant authorities. During our correspondent’s visit to the abandoned school, four persons alleged to be teachers were seen discussing in a group outside an administrative office. But for the inscription on the gate of the school, it could easily be mistaken for an abattoir as the stench from the animal excreta and urine filled the facility. A water tank and a watering point for the animals were noticed while small truck and its driver on standby to convey the animals to their final destination were noticed. The mobile policeman at the gate and the four “teachers” refused to speak with LEADERSHIP because they were not authorised to do so. They directed LEADERSHIP to the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), the school’s supervisory agency. At the board, its chairman, Alhaji Lawal Buhari Daura, was said to be on an official engagement could not be reached on why the school was abandoned. In Sokoto State, the situation is not different as the Almajiri Model Boarding School in Gagi, Sokoto North Local government area is begging for attention. There are 11 of such schools across the state under the control, supervision and staffing of SUBEB and the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Although, the school is still in operation, the facilities are grossly under-utilised. There are 11 of such schools in the state. At present, six of the schools operate the boarding system while five are day outfits. While most of the classrooms are unoccupied a large number of almajiris still roam the streets as they refused to attend the integrated model schools. However, a little progress has been recorded in Jigawa State where 52 almajirai pupils graduated from Tsangaya Model Primary School, Gantsa to Science, Arabic and other conventional junior secondary schools. Twenty-nine of the 52 graduates have also memorised the entire Holy Qur’an while another set of the pupils is expected to graduate this year from the same school. The director of Tsangaya School at SUBEB, Malam Garba Ubandi, said that there are six of the schools in the state comprising four in model one and two in Model two. All the schools, according to him, are functioning well. The Tsangaya Model 2 School, of which Jigawa has two under the pilot phase, one in Gantsa and the other at Gagarawa, are all boarding and has capacity for between 70 and 80 pupils per session. The Gantsa Tsangaya Quranic model boarding school has 10 classrooms, four blocks of hostels, library, language laboratory, science laboratory, clinics, workshop, toilets, administrative block and independent water system. Under the agreement for the establishment of the school, the federal government provides the structure and facilities while the state government provides the manpower and manages the school. The six almajiri schools Kebbi State are located in Birnin Kebbi, Tudun Wada, Tarasa, Gwadangaji, Koko, Argungu local government area and in Dakingari in Suru local government area. When LEADERSHIP visited one of the schools in Tudun Wada area of Birnin Kebbi, the state capital, the buildings, which were in good condition, however, had no potable water and electricity. The headmaster, Aliyu Abubakar, said that water and electricity were the major challenges the school faces. He said: “We made several efforts to lodge our complaints including appealing to good spirited individuals to help us without any response.” The Tsangaya/Almajiri school which was constructed in 2012 has 212 pupils, two hostels which are inadequate and only two classrooms with 15 teachers taking nine subjects: English language, Mathematics, Basic Science, Social Studies, Computer, Arabic, Islamic Religious Studies (IRS), and Tahafiz and six supporting staff. Abubakar explained that the state government is responsible for feeding the pupils and paying the teachers’ salary. Other schools visited by LEADERSHIP had standard structures except in a few cases where urgent repairs are wanted. The desk officer for Tsangaya/Almajiri Education in Kebbi SUBEB, Alhaji Shehu Mashayabo, who commended both state and federal governments for their interest in sustaining the schools, however, however, lamented that the facilities were poorly maintained. He said: ‘Since these schools were established by former President Jonathan over five years ago, they have not witnessed any maintenance or repairs. Apart from feeding the pupils and paying the salaries of the teachers which I must commend, the state government under the leadership of Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, has ensured the system is running. “Each of these schools has its peculiar problems but the general one is lack of maintenance,” he lamented.