In line with the federal government mandate to enroll Nigerians into the National Identity Number (NIN), the Biosec Solution is set to launch diaspora enrollment in 15 countries worldwide including the UK, US, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Ivory Coast, and Congo. The Managing Director of Biosec Solutions, Dr. Agu Osoka who disclosed this in statement made available to LEADERSHIP at the weekend in Abuja. The statement read in parts: “Biosec Solutions has been part of many identity management-based projects over the years, and has implemented these GDPR guidelines to ensure that it can continue to deliver world class services to Nigerians. This significant achievement has catapulted Biosec to a world class company which implements international standards and best practices. “Biosec Solutions engaged DIPSec, a company registered in Belgium to serve as EU representative and Data Protection Officer (DPO) as required by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). With several years of experience in data protection, information security and risk management, DIPSec has developed solutions for organisations outside the EU to enable them process the data of EU residents in accordance with the GDPR. “We at Biosec Solutions care about your data and privacy. This is why we have put in the effort to upgrade our systems and process to meet international standards and best practices. These organizational and technical upgrades will enable us provide the best services to Nigerians in diaspora as we look to bring the National Identification Number (NIN) registration to their doorstep,” he statement. He added that BIOSEC Solutions is a Nigeria foremost identity management consultancy firm with over thirty cumulative years of biometrics experience, has become certified as being EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliant, the company is one of the foremost Nigerian companies to issued this certificate of compliance. “The EU GDPR is a set of guidelines and rules that are to be implemented by organisations to  enable them manage personal identity data (including biometrics) in a highly secure manner,” he added. He explained that the company is partnering with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to enrol Nigerians in Diaspora and with this new data privacy guidelines and safeguards in check, Biosec Solutions is further equipped to take the registration of Nigerians in diaspora to their doorsteps. According to him, the GDPR compliance enables Biosec Solutions obtain personal data (personal identifiable information including biometric data) worldwide under the EU/US privacy shield, and can determine the purpose and means of processing the data. Further information on Biosec Solutions and its various projects can be found at its official company website: www biosec.com.ng. Information on diaspora enrollment may be found at www.IDcard.ng and www.nimc.gov.ng 