Chams Plc said it was set to deploy its robust e-voting platform for this year’s election into the council of Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN). Besides, Chams, renowned for its comparative advantage in e-voting has assured CITN of data security, transparency of electoral process and simplicity of use of the platform before, during and after the election. Speaking during the flag-off in Lagos, executive director, Innovation, Marketing and Corporate Communications of Chams, Mrs. Funke Alomo Oluwa, explained that Chams had always been a partner in progress with CITN. “We are assuring CITN that we have put together, the highest level of data security for this election. Our infrastructures are robust and these guarantee seamless voting.  We have also assembled professional support team for enhanced assistance at any time,” Oluwa said. Corroborating her, the president and chairman of CITN, Chief Cyril Ikemefuna, urged the committee saddled with the responsibility of the election, to work with the service provider Chams Plc to ensure transparency and credibility of the election. “We are pleased with the process so far. We urge everyone to ensure that the process is transparent and credible in order to enable a credible leader that will take the Institute to another greater heights emerge,” he said. Speaking on the process of accreditation and voting, the E-voting Administrator and Chief Scrutineer, CITN, Mr. Rasaq Quadri, stated that the total accredited members was 22,206, while the total number of eligible voters for the election accredited through membership identity number, telephone number and their email addresses stood at 7,257. He explained that each voter would log-in through his or her email address to the platform and vote. He expressed optimism in skills and competence of Chams Plc to deliver free, fair and credible election for CITN, saying that the best way to go in election  is by  e-voting which Chams Plc is offering the institute. “To a large extent we have been working with Chams and we are enjoying the relationship we have with them. We now have good database that is secured and this is the beginning of everything. We have confidence in Chams to deliver free, fair and credible election by the time the result will be out,” said Quadri Chams Plc has handled many landmark e-voting for many associations in Nigeria, including Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), among others. In a recent interview, the group managing director and chief executive officer of the company, Mr. Femi Williams, articulated Chams’ capacity to handle e-voting for Nigeria’s future elections to reduce cost, electoral malpractices and ensure credibility and timeliness of electoral processes. Statistician-General of the Federation, Yemi Kale said the survey will serve as a good source of data for the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda to measure the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) indicators, particularly for indicators under Goal 3 of the agenda which aims to Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages and in particular goal 3.5 which aspires to strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol by 2030 .