The outgone governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar has reacted to the allegation that his government left behind a debt of N137 billion for the new administration. Refuting the allegation through his media aide, Ali M. Ali, the former governor denied the statement attributed to Senator Adamu Gumba, chairman of the Transition Committee that the immediate past  administration bequeathed a debt profile of N137billion for the new government saying that it was incorrect. “He also revealed that the previous  government inherited N98billion from the former government of Malam Isa Yuguda in 2015. He finally concluded that the out gone government left behind N41billion  debt.  This is incorrect, factually so. “ Throughout the four year tenure of the former leader, the government didn’t take a single commercial loan. We however, acknowledge the receipts of various intervention loans from the federal government that totaled N34.6billion.These were concessionary loans by the federal government to states with heavy financial burden and lean purse. “All states were beneficiaries except Lagos and Akwa Ibom states. For example the government benefitted from  Bailout loan of N8.6 billion; Infrastructure Loan- N10billion; CBN CACS Loan – N8 billion and Budget Support Facility loan N8billion.Collectively these totalled N34.6billion,” he claimed. He also claimed that all the listed loans were given to all the states across the federation except the listed two’’. He explained that the loans were used for the purposes they were meant for adding that Abubakar left  N11.6 billion  in the state government account being refund of projects undertaken on behalf of the federal government in the state . “ Before its tenure ended on May 29th,the government of Abubakar ensured that the  refund was effected despite the machinations of detractors, some of whom, are very visible now. “At no time was the government of MA Abubakar a spendthrift or engaged in frivolities in the management of very lean resources,” he noted.