The European Union has earmarked €20 million Euros to support recovery and strengthening of the education sector in Borno state. The EU Representative, Mr Curt Cornelius disclosed this on Saturday during the launching of  the EU Support to Response , Recovery and Resilience in Borno state: Education Component, held in Maiduguri. Mr Cornelius said the funding will support a flexible and responsive education programme that can effectively respond to the acute emergency education needs of children while laying foundation to build – back – better, so that as stability improves, communities are better able to demand quality education services, and public authorities are better able to deliver, and are held more accountable. “The Programme will be implemented by two consortia, one led by Plan International, together with Save the Children and Gender Equality Peace and Development Centre of Nigeria, and the other led by UNICEF, together with Norwegian Refugee Council and Street Child. “Over 150,000 children and 2,500 teachers will directly benefit from the two new European Union (EU) funded projects aimed at providing immediate education services and strengthening the education system in Borno.  The EU has earmarked €20 million through its 11th European Development Fund for the projects, launched this day by the Borno state Authorities”, said Mr Cornelius. Also the Country Director, Plan International, said over 118,000 children and 944 teachers will benefit from Plan International Nigeria’s new education project in Borno state. “The three-year project is funded by the European Union (EU) and is aimed at providing access to safe, inclusive and quality primary and secondary education for both boys and girls in particular (aged 6-18) who have faced displacement. “The implementation is being led by Plan International Nigeria in partnership with Save the Children. At least 18, 000 children and youth who have dropped out of education will benefit from Accelerated Learning Programme (ALP) in cohorts over the course of the project, 80, 000 primary and secondary school pupils will benefit from improved access to quality education, 12, 000 young people will benefit from life skills training and 4,300 will be receiving employability & business training. “This is part of our commitment to support 100 million girls in Nigeria to learn, lead, decide and thrive in the next five years,” adding that it will help to bring down the poor literacy rate in the region. The project will renovate and rehabilitate 182 physical disabilities inclusive classrooms, construct 550 gender disaggregated, girl and disability friendly latrines, 16 new boreholes with hand pump, provide voucher based scholastic materials to benefit 23, 000 learners targeted, train and sensitize beneficiaries on hygiene practices. “Also, there will be provision of teaching kits to the 123 schools, and dignity kits to 14, 620 girls to encourage attendance limiting absenteeism related to menstruation. In his remarks, Borno state governor, Prof Babagana Umara Zulum appreciated the series of intervention that had been carried out by the European union in the state before the present gesture. While noting that the intervention is not a loan but grant from EU , he reiterated his administration’s commitment to for educational development of the state. 