In this report ERNEST NZOR writes on the issues of gender inequality with emphasis on the 2019 general elections and national gender policy Nigeria’s population is estimated to be over 200million. Women form 49.4 per cent of this figure. However, female political representation in the 2019 elections was negligible relative to approximately half of the population they constitute. 2,970 women were on the electoral ballot, representing only 11.36 per cent of nominated candidates. So far, 57 women have been recorded as elected, a meager 3.83 per cent of elected  officials. Should this figure hold, it would represent a decline from the 2015-19 period, where women formed 5.65 per cent of elected officials. It was revealed that 8.22 per cent of the total Presidential candidates were women. The recent trend had been a single female presidential candidate. In 2015, this was Prof. Oluremi Sonaiya contesting the position with 14 men. In 2011, it was Mrs. Ebiti Ndok up against 19 presidential candidates. In 2007, Major Mojisola Adekunle Obasanjo (Rtd.) contested against 26 men. However, in 2003, two women out of 20 presidential candidates made it to the ballot, Mrs Sarah Jibril and Major Mojisola Adekunle Obasanjo (rtd). In the 2019 elections, women also formed a significantly high number of five presidential candidates and 13 per cent of Vice-Presidential candidates. On the one hand, the disparity between Presidential and Vice Presidential figures could suggest female candidates are being fielded as tokens by fringe parties. On the other hand, such a phenomenon could also represent shifting societal views on gender norms seeping into politics. Events leading up to the elections should dampen some of the positive sentiment around these figures. Specifically, all five female candidates stepped down before the national elections. Furthermore, the two leading parties did not field a woman for either position on the presidential ticket. Arguably the most popular female candidate, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili stepped down from the ticket of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), allegedly over issues of party finance. Almost immediately after her withdrawal, ACPN announced the adoption and backing of incumbent and APC candidate. The chief facilitator, Social Inclusive and Diversity Practitioners and Promotes Equity Advocate (SIDPPEA) Ene Ede explained that in the elections into the National Assembly, there were 768 female candidates representing 11.66 per cent of the total, 3.41 per cent of which have been elected. 235 women forming 12.34 per cent of candidates contested for a seat in the Senate of which six (5.5 per cent) were elected. This is a drop from the 8th Senate, where women accounted for 6.42 percent of the total number of elected senators, four. The two dominant political parties fielded 17 (7 APC ). The attainment of gender equality is not only seen as an end in itself and human rights issue, but as a prerequisite for the achievement of sustainable development. It is on this note that the acting executive chairman, Federal Character Commission (FCC), Mr Abayomi Sheba said that gender inequality among others, remains key policy problem in accessing socio-economic and political opportunities in the country. Sheba, who was represented by Barr. Mohammed Tukur, secretary to the Commission, stated this at a two-day workshop with the theme: “Gender Mainstreaming and National Gender Policy.” Sheba said that efforts at addressing the gender issues prompted the development of the National Gender Policy (NGP). The National Gender Policy of the Federal Republic of Nigeria was developed at a watershed moment, where government is recommitting itself to the implementation of national and international conventions and laws in support of gender equality, empowerment of women and women’s rights. “The long-term goal of the NGP is to reduce inequities in the opportunities and outcome of socio-economic, political, cultural and legal developments for both men and women. “The commission is one of the key institutions of government charged with the responsibility of mainstreaming gender with its principles aimed at ensuring fairness and equity,” he said. He said the commission had been very proactive in terms of gender inclusion in the area of appointments. He added that the present administration was doing so much to ensure equity and fairness in the distribution of socio-economic amenities and infrastructural facilities, reducing fear of deprivation and marginalisation in the country. He urged participants to deliberate extensively and develop a set of guidelines that would integrate affirmative action on women’s representation within the Federal, States, Civil Service, Armed Forces, Police, other security agencies and all political appointments at national and state levels. Also the director, Socio-Economic and Infrastructural (SEI) Department, FCC, Mr. Dipo Akinsola said that the objective of the workshop was to strengthen management and leadership skills in creating gender policies. He said the workshop would identify challenges as it relates to gender in recruitment and placement in various MDAs, and also to build and enhance participants’ diverse competencies in order to sustain, manage and gain leverage on Gender issues. The facilitator of the workshop, a Development Professional, Ms Safiya Adamu said that gender is a socially acquired attribute resulting from cultural orientation, society and community laws. She said gender was not about feminism but about being that individual, whether male or female that you choose to be. She described gender mainstreaming as a specific strategy and steps taken to ensure gender equality and equity in the society. According to her, it is an approach to policy making that takes into account interest and concerns of both sexes. “Gender mainstreaming gives you a right to choose and a right frame of mind to make a choice. “It is not about seeking equality; it is a long time developmental goal that seeks to make everyone reputable in the society. “If you have 60 children that are of school age it does not matter, every one of these children should be in school. “Gender mainstreaming seeks to say no one decides what a child wants to study, the child should have a full right of choice; the right to choose is very significant in gender equality and gender inequality is more pronounced in the education sector and it starts from the home,” she said.