From the statistics rolled out yesterday, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) through “Operation Puff Adder” is winning the war against banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery and other violent crimes in the country. Giving an update on the ongoing crackdown on the criminals yesterday, the police said that 2,175 suspected bandits, kidnappers, armed robbers and other hoodlums were arrested since “Operation Puff Adder” was launched on April 5, 2019. The NPF also disclosed that 63 kidnapped persons were rescued unhurt by its men and officers during the period under review. To give the fight against banditry and kidnapping more bite, the inspector-general of police (IGP, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has canvassed tougher legislations such as state seizure of assets linked to illicit proceeds from kidnapping and other heinous crimes. Adamu believes that this will act as a strong disincentive to potential kidnappers and other violent criminals. He noted that the call became necessary following the increasingly daring resort to these forms of crimes by certain elements in the society. Force spokesman, Mr. Frank Mba said that the IGP made the call yesterday when a delegation of the Nasarawa State chapter of the  Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) led by Alhaji Aminu Muazu Maifata who paid him the traditional Salah homage in his official quarters in Abuja. Among the 2,175 suspects are 865 armed robbers; of which 359 were arrested for murder, 852 kidnappers and 99 cultists. He said that 834 arms, including two rocket launchers, 19,009 live ammunition were recovered, with Oyo State recording the highest number of 9,500 live ammunition. The IGP stated that the police were rejigging their strategies to ensure proactive interception of illicit weapons destined for the country and at the same time mop up unauthorised weapons in circulation. According to him, while several cases were being prosecuted in courts across the country, others are still under investigation due largely to the complexity of probing and managing organised crimes. Meanwhile, the Bauchi State police command has arrested four suspected armed robbers and 64 social miscreants popularly known as “Sara-Suka.” In a statement issued by the command’s spokesman, DSP Kamal Datti Abubakar, he said that on June 2, 2019  at about 2305hrs, the command’s “Tactical Team of Operations Puff Adder”, acting on information, arrested two men, Audu Daniel, 29, of Gboko local government area, Benue State and John Samuel, 22, of Orlu local government area of Imo State at Kofar Gombe area of Bauchi metropolis and recovered one motor vehicle, Lexus Jeep RX 350, model 2007, ash in colour, with chassis number 2T2GK31U37100 and registration number EPE 734 EU valued at N4million.” Abubakar said that the suspects confessed to having robbed the vehicle along with three others on the same date at about 0900hrs from a woman, at Forest, along Abuja-Jos Highway. During a search on the vehicle, he said that an Infinix phone belonging to the victim; photocopies of the vehicle invoice bearing one Linda Onyinye Anakwe of No. 51 Rukuba, Jos, Plateau State, a pair of clothes, seven necklaces and other documents recovered. He explained that a discreet investigation led to the arrest of two more suspects on June 3, 2019 in Bauchi metropolis. The police mouthpiece identified the suspects as Ikenna Okoronkwo, 28, of Janta Adamu, Jos, Plateau State and Solomon Ijika, 32, of Federal Low Cost Housing Estate in connection with the crime. Abubakar said that the case was still under investigation after which the suspects would be charged to court. He e said: “Between 2nd and 4th June, 2019 intelligence-led raids were carried out by combined efforts of the command’s “Puff Adder Team of Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Anti-kidnapping Unit (AKU), State Intelligence Bureau (SIB), ‘A’ Division and volunteer members in identified criminal hotspots in Bauchi metropolis. “During the raids, a total number of 60 notorious Sara-Suka thugs were arrested while exhibits recovered from them included two knives, 11 machetes and eight sachets of assorted illicit drugs,” he said. Abubakar said that the Command deployed 3,067 officers and men from the conventional police and other tactical teams to provide logistics in all praying grounds and venues of events in the state during the Eid-el Fitr Sallah celebration.