Two Nigerians have emerged as the winners of N1 million each at the grand finale of Tecno Nigeria’s Light Up Your Dream (LUYD) project to mark the launch of a new device. In this year’s edition, Tecno empowered seven people both offline and online with N7 million with each going home with one million each. A total of over 16,000 entries were received at the end of the competition, five entries were selected every week for five weeks where the best two were picked weekly via vote by the audience. In all, 10 participants were shortlisted to pitch their dreams to the panel of judges which includes Nollywood actress, Juliana Olayode and celebrity blogger, Noble Igwe. The contestants included young entrepreneurs across various business sectors such as agriculture, cinematography, fashion and food. Temidire James, who had the dream of expanding his plantain production business; Effiong Victory a cake and pastries baker; Chioma Ogburie, garri producer, Eniola, who deals in Adire sewing; Grace palmoil production; Rufus Eniola, a cinematographer; Mercy Orlu, soap production; Unorji Chinonso scriptwriting and Amaka Judith a cobbler. Speaking at the event, the PR and strategic partnership manager, Jesse Oguntimehin, said the project came to light in other to better show appreciation to target audience. He said, “We were like what better way can we show appreciation and be close to our target audience and then we thought of the light up your dream challenge unknown to us it will expand, we had the first one, second one and then this is the third one, we want to help ignite passion and bring dreams into reality by stepping up their dreams to the next level.” At the end of pitching to the judges, soap producer. Mercy Orlu and Amaka judith of Amjurose won one million naira each. Five lucky customers from Abuja, Ibadan, Port Harcourt, Enugu and Lagos that bought the phones were also given the opportunity to be millionaires as they won N1million  each in the raffle draw. Several consolation prizes were also handed over to weekly regional winners.