The chief of air staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar has lauded the doggedness and sacrifices of the Nigerian Air Force personnel in various theatres of operations to ensure peace and security of the nation. The CAS made the commendation in a goodwill message to officers, airmen and airwomen of the service on the occasion of Eid-el Fitr celebration after completing the Ramadan. “I wish to particularly thank all NAF personnel for their patriotism, dedication and countless sacrifices made in the various Theatres of Operation. Your valuable contributions have ensured that aircraft and ancillary equipment are available; logistics requirements are in place, administrative necessities are met and personnel are combat-ready to tackle the challenges confronting the nation. “It is gratifying to note also that our gallant fighter and helicopter gunship pilots as well as our Regiment and Special Forces personnel are adapting creditably to the threats facing our nation and are making good progress,” he said. He further urged them to redouble their efforts and engage the security challenges with rugged optimism and renewed determination, while remaining professional in the discharge of their constitutional duty of ensuring the security of Nigeria. The CAS also charged the soldiers to take the battle to all the adversaries of the nation and fight them to the finish, not minding the malicious propaganda of the terrorists and their sympathisers. “I therefore enjoin you all to redouble your efforts and engage the security challenges with rugged optimism and renewed determination, while remaining professional in the discharge of your constitutional duty of ensuring the security of our beloved nation and its good people”. “You must be courageous, take the battle to all the adversaries of our great nation, be they terrorists, insurgents, bandits or any other criminal elements, in synergy with our sister services and other security agencies. Fight them to the finish, not minding the malicious propaganda of the terrorists and their sympathisers,” he said. Air Marshal Abubakar also called on the personnel to always operate within the ambits of extant local and international laws, while showing compassion and respect for all law-abiding citizens.  