To strengthen the age – long socio-economic ties between Nigeria and Niger Republic, the Government of Republic of Niger has opened a consulate office in Lagos to serve her nationals residing within and beyond Lagos and south-west of Nigeria, provide useful information as well as to facilitate legitimate activities between the two sister nations. Supported by geographic proximity and existing trade relations, Nigerian ports, for a long time, served as transit hub for exports and imports bound for the Republic of Niger. Nigeria and Niger Republic had signed an agreement to move three million tonnes of transit cargoes from Lagos seaports to Jibiya in Niger annually. However, the formal takeoff of the Lagos consulate office located in Ikoyi, was witnessed by the ambassador of Niger Republic to the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency Alat Mogaskia. Other dignitaries who graced the commissioning ceremony include the governor of Niger State represented by the deputy governor, Alhaji Ahmed Mohammed Ketso, the consul general of Burkina Faso, Mr. Jean Bengaly and the Sarkin Fulani of Lagos Alhaji Mohammed Bambado. Ambassador Mogaskia described the opening of the consulate as another giant step in the consolidation of the diplomatic relationship between the two countries. He further stated that Nigeria and Niger were countries with the same history divided only by colonialism. “Niger-Nigeria relations are based on a long-shared borders, common historical and cultural interactions and strong family ties.This ceremony is therefore a thing of pride to me personally,” he added. While expressing his appreciation to the country’s leader, His Excellency President Mahammadou Issoufou, for the approval to establish a consulate office in Lagos, the ambassador urged those who would manage the office to always be open to serve Nigeriens and other nationals who may require assistance, be it consular or economic. He commended the efforts of those who worked for the actualisation of the consulate, in particular the commitment and contribution of the honorary consul, Alhaji Abdullahi Monguno. The honorary consul is a Nigerian, a respected businessman and until his appointment, he served as a member of the African Union Peace Committee to Sudan. Monguno in his remarks, thanked the President of Niger, His Excellency Mahammadou Issoufou, for appointing him as honorary consul in Lagos, and explained that his major task was to facilitate beneficial relationship and protect the rights and interests of the citizens of Republic of Niger in Nigeria. He further called on Nigeriens to live in peace with their host community and enjoined them to abide by the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The honorary consul pledged to support the several productive agreements already signed by the two countries such as the construction of a hydrocarbon crude oil export pipeline from Niger Republic to Nigeria and a petroleum refinery in Katsina State. He assured the government and people of Niger of investing his goodwill to bring mutual benefits that would advance developments in Niger Republic.