Alaba Onaolapo is a Juju musician based in the United States of America. The singer who is popularly known as Alaba Ultimate speaks with SAMUEL ABULUDE and SANDRA EMMANUEL on his sojourn in music, challenges and growing fan base among other matters Does the name of your band reflect New York band because you live in New York? Yes, because we lived in New York. That’s why we named it Ultimate Band and it’s registered as New York Ultimate Band. You spoke about releasing your first album and selling three copies, what experience did that give you in terms of wanting to continue your career? If you were in my shoes you’ll be down and depressed because my expectations were so high but the incident actually made me become the person I am today. The downfall of a man is not the end of his life. It just elevated me and catapulted me to my glory.  This happened over 24 years ago, would you say that contributed to your decision to leave the country? No, it did not. I wasn’t planning on leaving the country. I was just doing my music and doing all I could to affect the entertainment industry. The opportunity came and I took it, now I’m here.  How big is your band and how often do you perform? We do perform like almost every other week. Because of travelling schedule, it takes a lot of time so I’ll say every other week.  I don’t perform on a certain days because of the time. The schedule is so tight. I come to Nigeria almost every month sometimes to perform. New York Ultimate band has been able to build a large fan base over the years. And we are not resting on our oars.  In terms of logistics, does it leave you with two bands, one in Nigeria and the other abroad? Yes, it does because the cost of bringing all the band members from the USA is super high and there’s no way they will be able to afford it. If you want to remain relevant and you still want your fans to remain your fans, you don’t have to put all the weight on them financially, so that’s why we have a Nigeria band.  Since you started this a long time ago you must have been much younger then, what attracted you to music? I was a member of the choir in my mother’s church, Cherubim & Seraphim Church, Oke Ayo in Ibadan. My mum also has a church in Ojodu area of Lagos and I was one of the choir members. I watched many artistes like Baba 70 and Fela. Music became part of my life. So I started following a big prominent artiste in Ibadan at that time called Sunny Ibadan. I was not a member of his band. I used to follow people to move his equipment and would sleep on one of the trucks just to get close and know how they do their live band. That’s how I fell in love with it and my first show was a party where the musician they paid for the party didn’t show up and all his band members were there. I told the presenter I could do it and I got there and I killed it (I performed well). That’s how the confidence grew in me. The journey to greatness needs patience. Things will go so wrong for you at times. I would perform shows for free without asking for payment just to showcase myself to the world. In the USA, a lady came to my show in New Jersey and after the show, she called me and asked me for a date to perform at her mum’s burial ceremony and I was surprised she asked me to give her a date. That dawned on me. I went home because someone who had insulted you and come back to tell you something like that shows the world is watching. It shows you’re relevant again.  How much has technology reinforced your music and your fan base? You work with time so with technology, new things come out and you go with it. You come out with your own style and give it to people, that way you will always remember it  New York is known as a state where you find a lot of Nigerians, how much has this worked for you? It worked first because it is my career and I had also lived in Ireland so don’t get me wrong. I lived in New York for six years, moved to Ireland and in six years, I came back to New York because if the fans request that they want you to be close, so when you call me from Ireland to come and perform, the prize is now high because of the transport. They request like every week and I get to performing in New York every week. So I thought about it and spoke to my family, do you know what family, let us move back and I was able to attain my masters’ degree in Ireland at that time being in Ireland so it helped me.  Now you’ve spoken about your forthcoming album titled ‘Breakthrough’, why didn’t you think of featuring one of the musicians that you say you are willing to work with? On this ‘Breakthrough’ remember I said I did an album called ‘Pà Egan Re’. It has been a while so I’m coming up now and bringing one popular artiste now on my album and the album blows, what will you say tell me, that it’s because of Pasuma that helped him. I wanted to do this for my fans all by myself. I want to give them something right now. I am focusing on Alaba Ultimate giving the fans what they want.  In terms of music views, are you also planning to put this particular one in? Yes, we are going to have some tracks going on iTunes as soon as we launch the album. We will be putting some tracks on those platforms so it will be easier for the hands we are already in contact with iTunes, my team is also working with them right now to put the whole album, so it will be easier for them to download.  After the album what’s the plan when it comes with working with this people you’ve mentioned? First of all, my team’s plan is dropping a very nice music and music video so that many people just know the name Alaba Ultimate so well that they will put a face to the name with the video. So we are going to be doing a video and it will be coming up pretty soon.  That’s why we have to do this album launch and then the video. And then, come December we will be launching our foundation to give back to the communities.  From this conversation, Juju music which you perform seems to have a great followership in the States as well, how do we reconcile this that the genre is dying in Nigeria? I have heard this every time and I always say that Juju music which thrives on live music performances can never die. As long as there is live music, it cannot die. Remember that this genre is sung in churches as well and the hip pop genre in Nigeria has taken a lot from this genre and Fuji music as well. So music evolves but the predominant music genres which is our own are still there and loved by our people as it has become our culture and tradition over the years.  What do you have to say to the young ones and the youth out there? Don’t you give up. You know what the Fuji artiste, Adewale Ayuba, told me a long ago. I told him that everything is not going well with me, nobody wants to see me.  He told me, don’t give up! So, one shouldn’t give up in life. Believe in your music your ability to put something on the table. Believe me, do what you can do to improve yourself. Never give up and don’t think that because you are on this lane by yourself that you are doing a wrong thing. Once you know you are doing the right thing, it doesn’t matter what people say, do the right thing and do not give up when things get tough. 