A University Don,  Prof Olufemi Onifade has suggested the adoption of controlled grazing policy to end incessant clashes between herdsmen and farmers. He gave this advice in Lokoja, Kogi state capital, at a workshop on “Experience Sharing” organised by Synergos Nigeria. Synergos Nigeria, a Non-Governmental International Organisation, funded by Bill Gate foundation is for development and to enrich policy research to enhance easy implementation at the state and local governments’ levels. Onifade, a consultant from the department of Pasture and Range Management of Federal University of Agriculture,  Abeokuta, Ogun state explained that controlled grazing allows integrated crops and livestock farming practice blossom, noting that it will put an end to wastages, conflict and killings associated with livestock herding. The consultant pointed out that series of researches carried out on the concept of controlled grazing had indicated that it is most effective in bridging the gap of conflict between herdsmen and farmers in the final analysis. According to him,this method had been successfully tested in three selected states of Kaduna,  Kogi and Benue to pilot its implementation in the country, adding that it involves training of herdsmen and farmers in critical areas with a view to bringing benefits to them. A resource person,  Dr Saleh Monale said that the concept apart from eliminating conflicts will also increase capacity and enhance income for farmers and herdsmen,  calling on government at all levels to key into the policy and give it a trial. Saleh suggested that the awareness campaign should encompass, aside the mass media,  community watch,  workshops and trainings could be stepped down in local languages to enhance understanding for wider publicity. The Kogi state Commissioner for Agriculture,  Barr. Kehinde Oloruntoba while declaring the workshop open called for a peaceful co – existence between farmers and herdsmen for agriculture to effectively impact on the the people and the nation. He commended the Synergoes for its efforts in assisting the country to overcome incessant farmers and herdsmen conflict.