Newly inaugurated state governors yesterday settled down for governance proper as they began the removal of hurdles and booby traps set for them by their predecessors. Some of the very daring governors reversed the last-minute appointments and promotions made by the former governors. Others stopped the salaries of officers engaged after the March 9, 2019 governorship election and demoted others they believed were wrongly elevated. On the home front, one of the governors married a new wife barely 24 hours after his inauguration. The new wife, who is the daughter of the immediate past governor, is allegedly penciled for the first lady office. Some others are still handicapped as the outgone refused to present their handover notes to the new governors as well as the keys to their offices. LEADERSHIP Weekend investigation revealed that the governors of Oyo, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, and Zamfara States are ahead of their counterparts by taking drastic decisions to have a clean start in the governance of their states.  Makinde Sacks LG Chairmen, Removes 13 Perm Secs, Bans NURTW In Oyo State, Governor Seyi Makinde, who has only spent three days in office has reversed the appointments of 15 new permanent secretaries made by his predecessor, Senator Abiola Abiola. They were appointed three weeks ago. The governor has also sacked all the local government chairmen and proscribed the dreaded National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) from operating in the state. Makinde announced the reversal of the appointments yesterday at a meeting with all permanent secretaries in the state. The governor had vowed to review all new contracts and appointments made by Ajimobi in the twilight of his administration. His spokesman, Prince Dotun Oyelade, confirmed the development as he said that “Governor Makinde will be very consistent and finicky with all his campaign promises and this is not an exception. “The governor said that all transactions either contractually or in terms of appointments and promotions that were done especially between Monday, March 11 and May 28, 2019 would be given closer scrutiny particularly because of the obvious mischief that has been introduced into the whole governance within this period. “So it’s true that during the campaign period, the governor promised that the people of the state would not have him in the Governor’s Office to embark on distractive traditional probe but the brazen attitude that bothers on attempt to block the success of the current administration has made the governor to decide the latest course of action which is to reverse many of the policies and actions of the Ajimobi administration on the eve of his exit because they were borne out of malice. ‘’So, just like he made good the promise to cancel the N3,000 paid by parents for their children in public secondary school and open the Governor’s Office flyover to every citizen of Oyo State, in the same manner, he is dealing with the issue of the appointment of the permanent secretaries and civil servants,” Oyelade said. Also yesterday, the state government proscribed the NURTW and took over the control of all motor parks in the state. The chief of staff, Government House, Ibadan, Chief Bisi Ilaka, told a news conference at the Executive Chambers of the Governor’s Office in Ibadan, the state capital that the decision was taken after a meeting with stakeholders. He said that all motor parks have come under the control of the state government with immediate effect. Ilaka said: “While appreciating the good people of Oyo State for your steadfastness overtime and support for our administration, I want to reiterate our stand on the need to maintain peace and tranquility in our state in order to engender commercial and human development. “After today’s (yesterday) deliberation at a stakeholders’ meeting involving security chiefs and the state government, we have resolved to proscribe the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) until further notice. “All activities of the union remain illegal henceforth and we urge the people of the state to go about their lawful duties without fear of molestation, as combined security task force in every community of the state, have been charged to take control and maintain peace and order. “To this end, all parks in the state have been taken over by the state government with immediate effect,” he said, adding that the security task force in every community had been charged to take control of the area and maintain peace and order. The two factions of the union have been at loggerheads since Wednesday after the inauguration of Makinde. The factions have been disturbing public peace over leadership of the union in the state. Also, Makinde has dissolved all local government chairmen in the state with immediate effect. In a statement issued by Ilaka, he directed the council chairmen to handover to the heads of local government administration or the most senior directors in their councils.  Gov Zulum To Punish 11,000 Civil Servants For Absenteeism In Borno State, Governor Babagana Zulum got a shocker yesterday when he arrived at the State Secretariat to meet only a few workers on duty. The governor warned that his administration would not tolerate absenteeism and indiscipline from the state workforce, emphasising that therewas no food for lazy man. Zulum who met only 135 of the over 12,000 workforce in the state when he paid unscheduled visit to the secretariat, directed the Head of Service, Mohammed Hassan, to immediately pay the leave grants and other bonuses of the 135 workers who were on duty during his visit . He said if the workers could not be in their offices between 8:30 and 9:30 am he was at the secretariat, then there was no justification in paying their salaries. The governor vowed to deal with ay erring staff regardless of his or her status, saying the state government had to take the action to ensure discipline and dedication by workplace as well as obedience of the civil service rules. Zulum said: “The situation is very obnoxious and will not be allowed to remain unchanged. The hardworking and dedicated staff shall be rewarded. We had hot and extensive consultations with the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and they expressed their concerns. “On my visit, I am a human being, I am aware that it is Ramadan period. I came to the secretariat at about 8:30am, not more than 10 members of staff were in the secretariat. About 9:30am, a total of 135 staff were at the secretariat. What justification do we have to pay their salaries? I am ready to work closely with the civil servants but there is no food for lazy people,” he said. LEADERSHIP Weekend learnt that of the over 30 permanent secretaries in the secretariat, only two were in the office when the governor visited.  Govs Mohammed, Yahaya Stop Salaries Of New Appointees The governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed and his Yobe State counterpart, Inuwa Yahaya, have stopped the salaries of all new appointees and cancelled all contracts approved by their predecessors after the governorship election. While Mohammed yesterday ordered the immediate payment of salaries of civil servants in the state, he, however, told the state accountant-general to exclude those employed between April and May this year from the exercise. Mohammed had in his first official assignment as governor of the state declared all the last-minute appointments by former governor Mohammed Abubakar as illegal. He said that he reversed the appointments because due processes were not followed by his predecessor. Before his inauguration, the governor had vowed to sue Abubakar over his last-minute recruitment of civil servants, reinstatement of district heads and awards of contracts. Through his senior special assistant on Media, Mukhtar Gidado, the governor directed that “all workers must be paid latest today (Friday) and the exercise must be completed by Monday, June3, 2019.” In a statement he issued, Gidado said that the governor directed “the accountant-general to ensure that all persons engaged into the service between April and May 2019 are not reflected in the payment.” Also, the governor of Gombe State, Inuwa Yahaya says that all appointments, contracts and allocations by the state and local government areas from March 10 are suspended. Yahaya said that there were a lot of illegalities by the immediate past administration of Ibrahim Dankwambo. He said that steps would be taken to address all the illegalities, adding that the perpetrators and the beneficiaries of the illegal actions would be prosecuted. According to him, “there were illegalities perpetrated by the immediate past administration and we will take steps to address all of them.”  Zamfara Gov Declares War On Bandits, Donates Salary To Orphanage Meanwhile, the Zamfara State governor, Bello Matawalle, has donated half of his monthly salary to an orphanage home in Gusau, the state capital. Matawalle made announcement on Thursday when he paid an unscheduled visit to the home which was his first official engagement outside the Government House. He said: “From the time l will start enjoying my salary as the governor, l hereby direct that half of it should be channelled to this orphanage. “These children here are now my children and I will continue to take care of their welfare starting from this coming Sallah festival. “l will use my personal money for their clothing and supply of meat, and all other things that will give them comfort during the festivities,” he said. Matawalle warned armed robbers, kidnappers and other criminals in the state to repent or face the consequences of their actions. Matawalle said that killing, kidnapping and the destruction of the people’s property must end, warning that his administration would not condone such acts. He said: “I will be in touch with all stakeholders ranging from security chiefs, traditional and religious leaders in the state with a view to finding a lasting solution to the menace.”  Yobe Gov Marries New First Ladies An a day after his swearing-in as the new governor of Yobe State, Hon. Mai Mala Buni, has  married the daughter of his predecessor and political godfather, Alhaji  Ibrahim Gaidam. The marriage took place in the early hours of Thursday at Gaidam’s residence in Sabon Fegi area of Damaturu, the state capital. The new wife, Fatima Uri Adama, is being tipped to be the first lady in the state. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the marriage was performed secretly to avoid public attention. One of the guests at the wedding nikkah said that many dignitaries from within and outside the state were present at the event. Other dignitaries were members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the governor’s friends, elders, members of the state House of Assembly.  Sanwo-Olu Moves Against Traffic Jam, Filth In Lagos State, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has signed his first Executive Order on indiscriminate refuse dumping, traffic management. Sanwo-Olu had promised to clear the Apapa gridlock within 60 days of assuming office. He shared the news on his Twitter handle, @jidesanwoolu, saying that ”I signed an executive order on indiscriminate refuse dumping, traffic management and public works.” In a video, going viral on social media, the Governor said the executive order wasn’t meant to arrest residents but to ensure that the state is clean.  Gov Iheadioha Still Awaits Handover Notes Unlike his colleagues, Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, is still awaiting the handover notes from outgone governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha. He is yet to have an office to start work. This was disclosed by one of his aides, who denied that Ihedioha ordered the dismantling of the controversial Akachi monument built by Okorocha. The aide said: “Does it stand to reason that a government that is barely 24 hours old, with no handover notes whatsoever and without an office to work from yet would concern itself with an ordinary statue?” Ogun Assembly Reverses Amosun’s Last-minute Appointments Meawhile, the he Ogun State House of Assembly has passed a bill nullifying all appointments, employments and financial agreements signed by former governor Ibikunle Amosun between February 9 and May 28, 2019. The passage of the bill titled: “Nullification of Irregularities (Amendment) Law, 2019,”at plenary followed the suspension of the Assembly’s Standing Orders 45-48 to allow for the consecutive second and third readings of the bill. After the first reading on the floor of the Assembly by the deputy clerk, Mr. Deji Adeyemo, and extensive debate by the lawmakers during its second reading, the  motion for third reading was moved by Hon. Olusola Sonuga (APC, Ikenne) and seconded by Hon. Olawale Alausa (APC, Ijebu Ode). Opening debate on the bill, the deputy speaker, Hon. Olakunle Oluomo, noted that it was an amendment to the one earlier passed by the Assembly at the inception of the Amosun-led government to reverse all the irregularities. Oluomo noted that the last-minute appointments, upgrading and employment by the outgone administration did not follow due process, lacked merit and were lopsided. He submitted that all transactions with any financial institution by the Amosun administration and not approved by the House of Assembly should not be honoured by the nnew government. Other lawmakers who supported Oluomo included Akinpelu Aina, Adebowale Ojuri, and Olusola Bankole. After the third reading of the bill, the speaker, Hon. Suraj Adekunbi, directed that a clean copy of the proposed law be forwarded to the new governor, Dapo Abiodun, for his assent.