There is so much hype about enterprise software solutions from legacy software companies. Some of these companies are very famous house old names. They engage in project business models that cost clients a lot but deliver little in return. Clients are consoled with a false pretense that they have the exact enterprise software solution needed for growth and expansion. The clients are also made to believe that they are big market players and so they need the biggest solutions from top software companies.  Observation for Clients There are so many issues that fault most legacy software. There is a high cost for purchasing and operating legacy enterprise solutions. It takes a lot of time interval to implement them, yet they are challenging to use. Another fact for thought is that the advancement in IT technology solutions is supposed to make software cheaper, faster and more useful. However, the reverse is the case with some legacy enterprise solutions. The size of your company is not directly proportional to the needed size of technology or its cost. Most of the so-called legacy enterprise software solutions cost a lot running into millions sometimes, and yet you still need to adjust your business structure to meet the requirements of the solution. It doesn’t end there, you still spend some more to integrate this software with your initial software infrastructure and train your staff. The yarn goes on and on leading to more consultations and more expenditure. If your enterprise software solution has any of these characteristics, then it’s time to migrate: Limitations in applicable tasks, poor performance, irreconcilable technologies.  Factors responsible for the revolution against legacy enterprise solutions Recent times has led the path for the consumerisation of enterprise-grade software. This is unlike a few decades ago when only a few companies could afford enterprise solutions. Then computing solutions were channeled to resolving challenges of business productivity without special consideration for end-user adoption and experience. Today, due to the low cost of digital technology, most enterprises adopt more practical solutions made for end-users.  Consumerisation of enterprise technology has brought about the following Easy to use solutions – There is more intuitive experience while using applications with no need for training or manuals. This is achievable buy adapting simple UI/UX and the use of prompts as part of the application design. Operating from anywhere at any time – Most applications are mobile and yet work with accuracy to a task from anywhere. Depending on the user target, a mobile platform could be the first consideration. Next is the cloud. With cloud architecture, there can be no downtime for maintenance and enterprise applications can be used from anywhere. Personalised applications – Modern users are faced with smart applications that can learn about user preferences and behavior patterns. With artificial intelligence and machine learning, applications can assist the user to get productive results. A community of users – Enterprise solutions are integrated with a sense of community. This enables the professional within and outside the workplace to form a network structure for communication and sharing ideas. Multiple modalities – To engage modern employees, enterprise applications provide several interaction modalities like speech-to-text and vice-versa. Voice activation for simple tasks like reading a mail or setting up a meeting can also be useful. Speed, agility and adaptability – Enterprise applications are readily responsive and carry out tasks speedily. They are designed to fit consumer scale with responsiveness and accessibility from different devices or networks in real-time. Applications are liable to frequent changes. The use of agile methods in software development process makes it easy to adapt to user trends and pressing need. Agility enables fast and seamless changes and upgrades of software applications.  These days there has been a decline in the need for CIO’s as suggested by a Harvard review. CIOs are gradually becoming a thing of the past. Funds for projects are directed towards technology for back office IT other than the CIO. This is due to the growing risk of a global slowdown in the economy with the hope of cutting operating costs. In 2019, almost three-quarters of global tech purchases, around $2.6 trillion, is expected to go to the back office for support systems such as core software, risk management, and systems for finance or HR. The remaining $963 billion is expected to go to business technologies, such as customer analytics, CRM or product lifecycle management, according to Forrester.  SaaS, on-demand software as we know them, are now a preference to traditional model of standard software installations. There is no need for building a server, doing an application installation or even configuration. Everything is delivered to the user over the internet, making the client good to go with no delays.  Advantages of SaaS include:  Predictable cost – Your SaaS provider is responsible for the IT infrastructure that controls the software. This means you as a business owner will not spend on hardware infrastructure and software maintenance.    Easy setup and deployment – SaaS applications are installed and configured in the cloud.  Easy upgrades – Your SaaS providers handle the hardware and software updates; upgrades are centrally deployed to the hosted applications.  Accessibility – With a browser and an internet connection, you can access a SaaS application anywhere. The internet is usually available on a wide range of communication devices making SaaS more advantageous than regular software.  Scalability – Your SaaS provider can offer you alternatives for the subscription. The options and flexibility to change as the case may be.  Customisation and Interoperability – Some SaaS have special product characteristic that enables interfacing with other software with little or no restrictions. This helps companies to integrate other solutions with SaaS and have a more superior business solution. Mostly with the help of software development vendors experienced with this SaaS or platform.