Hollandia, the leading dairy brand from the stables of CHI Limited, recently donated dairy products to more than 500 children at the Bogije Internally Displaced Person’s (IDP) camp in Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos State. The Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation chose Children’s Day, marked every  May 27, as well as the World Nutrition Day, which comes up every May 28, to celebrate with the children as both days are of great importance. Though the initial target for the intervention was 300 children, the outpouring of persons from within the community led to engagement of a larger number of disadvantaged children. Speaking during the visit, the managing director CHI Ltd, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, represented by the head of administration, Mr. Ebere Osunkwo, stated that “As a socially responsible company, we are naturally passionate about child nutrition. And in cognizance of the unsatisfactory situation with child nutrition globally and nationally, we initiated the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation as a vehicle for contributing, in our own way, towards slowing down the spiraling number of cases of hunger and malnutrition amongst children.” He added that the Bogije IDP camp’s visit marked a notable milestone in the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation’s drive towards alleviating child hunger and malnutrition. Going further, he stated that “Many children have found themselves in certain adverse conditions due to no fault of theirs. When you think of these children in the IDP camps, you can imagine how many go to bed hungry every single night. Even when they get to eat, how nutritious is the food they consume? So we thought to ourselves, what better way to identify with them than on their day. This is why we chose to celebrate the Children’s Day and World Nutrition Day with them and at least put smiles on their faces.” Responding on behalf of the community, Chief Tajudeen Oniwolu, the Baale of the Bogije Oniwolu Estate, expressed his gratitude and joy at the event which he described as auspicious. He said, “I am very grateful to the management of CHI Ltd for this special visit and the donation of their products to the children today being Children’s Day. It is obvious for all to see that the children are very happy and as the Baale of this community, this really gladdens my heart. I call on other companies to emulate this kind gesture. I also beckon on CHI Ltd to continue with this very laudable initiative.” 