The Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) incurred the wrath of state governors last month when it told them to steer clear of local government funds effective from June 1. The NFIU had on May 6, 2019 issued new guidelines to reduce vulnerabilities created by cash withdrawals from local government funds throughout Nigeria. This was part of the measures put in place by the federal government to guarantee the much desired local government autonomy. President Muhammadu Buhari had last year signed the NFIU bill into law, thus separating the agency from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). By implication, governors may lose control of local government funds, as the guidelines bars them from tampering with funds meant for local councils. With the new guidelines, the joint account system currently in use by states and local governments now exists only for the receipt of allocations from the federation account but not for disbursement. The new measures place a daily cash transaction limit of N500,000 for each of the local government areas, which would be registered and monitored by the NFIU through e-payment module. Expectedly, state governors have protested, described the measure as a brazen attempt by the NFIU to ridicule their collective integrity”. According to them, the NFIU had no business with how state governments disburse funds to their respective local governments. The governors under the aegis of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), in a letter issued on their behalf by Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo,  spokesman of the forum, asked President  Buhari to call the NFIU to order. They argued that the move violates the constitution, insisting that they have the powers to make statutory allocations to the local governments. Taking their argument further, the governors said Section 162 (6) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) expressly provides for the creation of the States Joint Local Government Account (SJLGA) into which shall be paid all allocations to the LGAs of the state from the Federation Account and from the government of the state. The NGF emphasised that nothing in the NFIU Act 2018 gives the body the powers that it seeks to exercise in the guidelines that it released and is therefore acting in excess of its powers and by so doing, exhibits complete disregard for the constitution of Nigeria. The governors added that local government councils are a creation of the constitution and not financial institutions. “In principle the NFIU should concentrate on its core mandate of anti-money laundering AML activities and Combatting Financing Terrorism as prescribed in the Act establishing it and should desist from encroaching on or even breaching constitutional provisions”, the governors added. This Newspaper is of the view that both parties should thread with caution. We agree with the governors that NFIU, according to constitutional provisions, has no power to monitor and supervise local government funds. The unit is pushing the limits of its power too far because no matter how laudable and altruistic their intentions may be, the directive is illegal and unconstitutional. NFIU needs be reminded that sections 3 and 4 of  its Act clearly outlines the powers and functions of the body which are restricted largely to collection, analysis and distribution of financial intelligence, advising agencies on prevention of money laundering, financing of terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as well as monitoring suspicious accounts. It is also trite to say that the local government administration is completely dead in Nigeria. Despite being the third tier of government in Nigeria, state governors have brazenly taken over the running of local local governments for more than a decade now. Most state governors have blatantly refused to conduct local government elections. They appoint their stooges as caretaker chairmen for years. They give stipends to the caretaker chairmen to run their office and pay staff salaries. There is no gainsaying that governance is virtually dead at the local government level. In most cases, council workers only appear at the end of the month to collect salaries they never worked for. It is worthy of note that states and their local governments are supposed to collaborate on issues related to development of agriculture and non-mineral natural resources, health services as well as primary, adult and vocational education. Presently, there are 774 local government areas in Nigeria. Specifically, these local councils are to deal with issues related to roads, street lighting, drainage and other public facilities, including sewage and refuses disposal, homes for destitute and infirm, cemeteries and burial grounds, as well as economic planning and developments. There is no doubt that freeing the local government councils from the  asphyxiating hold of governors will go a long way in improving the level of governance and development in the third tier of government. In the light of the above, this Newspaper calls on the National Assembly once again to amend the constitution to enable the State Houses of Assembly do the right thing for once. At the moment, if the provisions of the constitution cited above are anything to go by, the grandstanding by the NFIU is simply a joke taken too far.