The chairman of the Association of African Maritime Administrations (AAMA), Dr Dakuku Peterside, has called on developed nations and corporate bodies to support Africa and other developing nations to build capacity and regulatory enforcement needed to maximise benefits of ocean economy. Dakuku, who made the call in Oslo, Norway at the commencement of the world renowned Nor Shipping Conference & Exhibition, holding June 4 – 7, 2019, noted that Ocean industries would be contributing to sustainable development goals  only when both developing and developed nations benefit in a sustainable manner. The high level ocean leadership meeting which was organised by United Nations Global Compact and the Norwegian government at the residence of the prime minister of Norway, as part of activities to mark the 2019 edition of “NOR SHIPPING” engagements had in attendance, the minister of trade of Norway Mr Torbjorn Roe  Isaksen , CEO of UN Global Compact, Ms Lise Kingo, Secretary General of International Maritime Organization, Mr KiTack  Lim, Secretary General of International Seabed Authority, Mr Micheal Lodge, Vice President of Seychelles and CEO of several multinational organisations. Peterside, who is also the director-general of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), further pointed out that 38 of Africa’s 54 nations were either coastal or island states and therefore were faced with the same challenges as other coastal states globally, such as pollution, climate change, poor ocean governance , overfishing, insecurity and marine litter amongst others. In a statement made available to LEADERSHIP by the deputy director, Public Relations, Isichie Osamgbi, the DG particularly advocated that developing and small island states needed partnerships in two principal areas of building up their regulatory enforcement capacity and developing amongst them the skills and technology needed to tap into the ocean economy in a sustainable manner. The AAMA president challenged the private sector companies in offshore exploration and other ocean economic activities to apply the same operating and environmental standards across the globe and not have two different standards, one for developed nations and another for developing nations. He pointed out that “applying the same standards will ensure no one is left behind in our collective quest for clean and sustainable ocean that support economic prosperity. Responsible ocean governance and economic opportunities are not mutually exclusive but complementary.” The forum discussed the highlights of global goals; ocean opportunities which is a report of the UN Global Compact on sustainable ocean principles that would be unveiled in September this year at New York. Also speaking, Kingo said UN Global Compact has a specific mandate to work with and inspire companies of all sizes and from all regions and industries to act responsibly and find opportunities to advance sustainable development. She said her organisation was encouraged that so many businesses around the world were taking an interest in ocean sustainability work. Ladan, who was represented by his Technical Assistant, Mr.  Nuhu Habib, said, “I strongly believe that transparency and accountability of doing business is a critical issue needed to be addressed for the industry to move forward. set a clear differential between what should be business and policies. Government must be very proactive in ensuring it operates also as a business entity and not just as a regulator. While arguing what should be a priority in the industry, Soji Awogbade, Principal Partner, AELEX, hinged on adequate government structures to drive the sector.