Stakeholders in the Nigerian stock market may have to wait a while, pending the determination of an appeal filed before the Abuja division of the appellate court by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), against the April 16 ruling by Justice Hussein Baba-Yusuf of the FCT High Court 4. Justice Baba-Yusuf had while discharging and acquitting Gwarzo and a former commissioner of SEC, Zakawanu Garuba, free of alleged N104.9million severance package and car allowance fraud ruled that ICPC failed to establish a ₦115.8million fraud case against the duo. According to TransparencIT, a civic tech organisation working to control corruption and accelerate justice and service delivery by enhancing transparency and active citizenship, the case lingered for all of 315 days, a situation it blamed on repeated adjournments. These, it noted, violated Section 396 (4) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) that the interval between each adjournment should not exceed 14 working days (and that) where it is impracticable to conclude the case, and the parties have exhausted their five adjournments, interval between one adjournment to another should not exceed seven days inclusive of weekends. The court ruled that ICPC has failed to establish a ₦115.8million fraud case against ex-director – general of Security & Exchange Commission (SEC), Mr. Munir Gwarzo & one other. The court, therefore, discharged and acquitted the defendants of all charges. In the last Thursday’s ruling, Justice Kado further held that the issue in dispute was not about the position of the claimant as the DG of the commission; the bone of contention was who had the power to suspend him. The minister of finance, he noted, lacked the power to suspend the claimant since he was not an employee of the commission, noting that only the permanent secretary in the ministry of finance, on the directive of the president, had the power of suspension. In its notice of appeal, before the Abuja division of the appellate court, the ICPC said that Justice Baba-Yusuf, erred when he freed Gwarzo and a former commissioner of SEC, Zakawanu Garuba. ICPC’s lawyer, Raheem Adesina, citing 12 grounds why the appellate court should order for a retrial of the accused persons as well as re-assign the case to another judge said that justice Baba-Yusuf’s reasons for the acquittal of Gwarzo were against the extant laws that set up SEC and other federal government agencies. Expectedly, stakeholder reactions to the court judgments have been varied, with some welcoming the development, even as others have accused ICPC’s lawyers of half-hearted prosecution of the case, as they kept presenting only the issue of the severance package, as if that was all. But members of the Consolidated Capital Market Stakeholders Forum (CCMSF) insist the ruling portents danger for the development of the Nigerian capital market. CCMSF in a statement by its president, Umar Usman, urged the federal government to appeal the judgment, given that Gwarzo also has several other issues of corruption that were yet to be concluded. Also speaking on the issue, the national chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (APSAN), Boniface Okezie, urged the federal government to appeal if it so desires, given that “(Mrs. Kemi) Adeosun (the then finance minister), when she took the decision to suspend Gwarzo, did not do it as a person. The ministry is still there as an institution, so they can appeal the decision.”