57-year-old Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) is a household name in Sokoto state. The company has since inception carried out series of Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR). In this report, ANKELI EMMANUEL takes a look at how far the company has fared in this regard The joy of the host communities of  Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN ) knew no bound. It was not a festival. It was a visit as usual by the officials of the cement company to the communities in order to donate medical consumable to them to equip their hospitals. The gesture was part of the CCNN’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative and everyone was elated as the donation has further demostrated the company’s responsiveness to its host communities. Though, the locals confirmed that the donation is a regu regular one by CCNN, what has remained baffling on that special day is the serial testimonies of the benefiting hospitals. As expected, while presenting the medical consumables worth millions of naira, the Managing Director of CCNN, Engineer Yusuf Halliru Binji, said what they were doing is not in any way strange, rather a continuation of their usual corporate social responsibility. Binji, who revealed that such interventions were parts of their commitment towards making positive impact in the lives of members of their communities, added that, they have since commencement of operation continued to enjoy mutually symbiotic relationship with the communities, the entire state, north and as well as their amazing costumers. Presenting the medical consumables at Arkila clinic in Wamakko local government area of Sokoto state, Engr. Binji said “Today is a very unique day for us as a company. What we are doing today is part of our yearly contributions to humanity especially within those that are our host communities.” “Today, we are doing the official presentation of this year’s medical consumable assistance to hospitals in Sabon Garin Dole clinic, Kalambaina dispensary, Bakin Kusu PHC and Wajeke dispensary. And with these as well as the numerous other contributions we do for our host communities, CCNN as a company operating in the state has always demonstrated readiness to contributing our quota to humanity,” he added. Giving insight into CSR initiative, Binji said, “The company does numerous other interventions such as relocating, compensating and building a whole brand new well planed village for the locals. This is in addition to sponsoring no fewer than 50 students that are indigenes of these host communities in various higher institutions.” “This, we undertake through our scholarship scheme. The scheme has in no small measure been of great importance to the people of the host communities as they confide in us on several occasions,” Binji said. Responding to the gesture, the vice chairman of Wamakko local government area,  Alhaji Muhammed Zubairu Dundaye, said they will continue to appreciate the care and concerns   shown to the people of the state by CCNN. On his part, the Ardon Wajeke, Alhaji Mohammadu Mailatun Gumbi, while appreciating CCNN for their wonderful assistance to the host communities, however, appealed to the company to consider engaging their children even as labourers Meanwhile, Engr  Binji had earlier recalled with sense of humility the very recent donation of teaching and learning materials by the company to 12 schools in the three states of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara, noting that they were committed to the general well-being of the host communities and neighbouring states. According to him, they are not only concerned about their organisation but also the overall development of the people. Engr. Binji further said, “Today is yet another historic and landmark in the history of relationship between CCNN and its host states. You will recall over the last year’s,  CCNN has continuesly offered assistance and projects to its host communities, in the areas of provision of water, electricity, rural roads, health-care, women and youth empowerment.” While revealing that CCNN equally awarded scholarship to 10 students each from the 3 states of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara to pursue their tertiary education across the country, Binji added that, they have again decided to donate educational materials to four selected primary schools and the Ministries of Basic and Secondary education in each of the benefiting states. Expressing satisfaction over the gesture, Zamfara state’s Director of Basic Education, Alhaji Yahaya Abdullahi Bungudu, assured that the items donated will be judiciously distributed. Speaking on behalf of the benefiting states, Sokoto state Commissioner for Basic and Secondary education, represented by the deputy director Quality Assurance of the ministry, Aliyu Jodi Tambuwal, said CCNN has been very dependable in its corporate social responsibility to the host states. Aliyu Tambuwal further appealed to all other wealthy individuals from across the thre states to emulate CCNN by contributing their own quota to the general development of humanity. Going down memory lane, one of the elders of the host communities, who gave his name as Musa Wajeke, said they knew the future was going to be bright when CCNN was founded and incorporated in 1962  by the Premier of the then Northern Region, the late Alhaji Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sardauna of Sokoto. Wajeke, who noted that, he with others worked at the site then as a labourers, said the company actually commenced production four years later. North-West Zonal Watch learnt that CCNN from inception has an initial installed capacity of 100,000 tones per annum at the Kalambaina plant. However, having started with a qualitative and reliable brand at inception, demand for the product became very high that the company had to go on expansion of the plant with the commissioning of a second line with an installed capacity of 500,000 tones per annum in 1985. As expected, the privatisation and commercialisation programme of the then Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida military government in 1992 led to the federal government’s disinvestment of about 20% of its holdings in CCNN, thus selling it to private investors.