President Muhammadu Buhari led other prominent Nigerians yesterday to highlight the virtues of the month-long Ramadan fast and charged the citizens to use  religion as an inspiration to do good to others at all times. In a message to Nigerians, especially the Muslim Ummah on the end of Ramadan and the Eid-el-Fitr celebration today, Buhari urged them to put humanity above personal interests in all their endeavours. The president’s Sallah message was made public yesterday by his media aide, Mallam Garba Shehu. Buhari said that the Ramadan period is meant to “reinforce us spiritually, therefore, we should use religion as an inspiration to do good at all times. “The virtues of the Ramadan should be sustained beyond the celebration. Going back to bad ways after the Ramadan might defeat the essence of the message and lessons the fasting period was supposed to inculcate in the hearts and minds of the Muslim faithful,” he said. The president also used the occasion to commiserate with victims of terrorism, kidnapping and banditry in the country. He reassured Nigerians that under no circumstances would criminals and mass murderers be allowed to hold the country to ransom, saying ‘‘their days are numbered because this administration will pursue them relentlessly and bring them to justice.’’ Buhari expressed satisfaction with the conduct of peaceful elections in Nigeria, despite what he called “doomsday predictions of social disharmony.” He commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for doing a good job despite the initial difficulties and also praised the voters for their tenacity and strong faith in the democratic process. The president recalled that before the 2019 general elections, prophets of doom didn’t give the country a chance to conduct peaceful elections, noting that despite the fears, the country overcame its political challenges. He said: “For abandoning their businesses in order to vote, the voters had demonstrated great patriotism in coming out to exercise their civic duty. “Let me use this opportunity once again to reassure all Nigerians that your sacrifices in voting for me won’t be in vain. I will ensure the ordinary voters feel the positive impact of government,” Buhari said.  Sultan Declares Today Eid-el-fitr Relatedly, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has declared today as Eid-el-Fitr  marking the end of Ramadan fast. The Sultan announced the sighting of the new moon of Shawwal in a radio and television broadcast in Sokoto. Abubakar said that the new moon was sighted in Kaduna, Kebbi, Yobe, Borno, Jigawa and Sokoto States among others. He said: ”In accordance with Islamic law, we have the honour and pleasure to announce that today, Monday, the 29th day of Ramadan, 1440 AH, which is equivalent of June 3, 2019 marks the end of Ramadan and the beginning of the new month of Shawwal. ”Reliable reports of moon sighting were received from Muslim leaders and religious organisations across the country, which were duly verified and authenticated by us, states and the National Moon Sighting Committee”, he said. ”Consequent upon this, tomorrow, Tuesday June 4, 2019 becomes the first day of Shawwal,1440 AH and is therefore declared the Sallah day for 2019 Eid-el-Fitr, ” he said.  Saraki Urges Nigerians To Work For Sustainable Peace Also yesterday, the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, congratulated Muslim faithful on the celebration of the Eid-el-Fitr which followed the successful observance of the Ramadan fast. Saraki, in a statement issued by his special adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, said that the prayers and sacrifices of the Muslim Ummah during the period contributed greatly to the relative peace witnessed across the country in the last one month. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to seize the momentum of the completion of this year’s Ramadan to work for sustainable peace, security and economic well-being of the country. The Senate president said that “our greatest challenges as a nation are insecurity and economic crises. And there is need for both government officials and those who voted them into office to co-operate in solving these problems. “On the security front, even though we acknowledge that new threats have continued to emerge, we believe that our security forces have all it takes to nip them in the bud in due course. “This is the more reason why all hands must be on deck to ensure the full restoration of lasting peace and security across the country. This, I believe, will provide a conducive business environment that would encourage investments – through which jobs and better opportunities for our people will be created. “Winning the war on insecurity can only come from the collective efforts of all Nigerians through cooperation with security forces in supplying timely intelligence that would aid them in their job of protecting life and property across the country,” Saraki said. While felicitating with Muslims on the completion of the spiritual exercise during the Ramadan, he urged them not to relent in displaying the discipline, restraint, discretion, piety and good neighbourliness which were very obvious during the period. Saraki further urged Nigerians not to relent in their prayers for the peaceful coexistence of all Nigerians and to be their brother’s keepers at all times.  Lessons Of Ramandan Should Go Beyond Ramadan – Dogara The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, in his felicitatation with the Muslim Ummah on the occasion of Eid-el-Fitr celebration, said that though Ramadan was over, the lessons of the season must be replicated in “our daily lives for the betterment of society.” Dogara also called for sober reflection and willingness to lend hands of support to the needy in the society and special prayers for peace, unity and the development of the country. While emphasising the importance of peace, unity and tolerance amongst the diverse people of the country for the envisaged growth and development to take place, Dogara insisted that the heterogeneity of Nigeria should be a source of strength rather than conflict. He saidL “As the Muslim Ummah all over the world celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Fitr to signal the end of the holy month of Ramadan,  I urge you to reflect the lessons and virtues of sacrifice, forgiveness, piety, self-denial and genuine love towards one another which you learnt during the month-long fast in your daily lives. “Apart from this reflection, I urge you to also offer special prayers for the nation, her leaders, for peace and unity and wisdom to overcome challenges being faced in the security and the economy of the country. Use the time to also remember the downtrodden who struggle to make ends meet as well as other people in difficult situations,” he said.  IGP Orders Tight Security To ensure hitch-free celebration across the country, the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has directed assistant inspectors-general of police (AIGs) and commissioners of police (CPs) in charge of zones and state commands nationwide to intensify security in all Eid praying grounds and other sensitive locations. He identified such places as recreation centres, public highways, public utilities and critical infrastructure. While felicitating with Nigerians, especially the Muslim faithful on the celebration of Eid-el-Fitr, Adamu called on the members of the public to remain vigilant and avail the police and other security agencies with useful information by reporting any suspicious persons and movements so as to prevent any untoward situation. In line with the IGP’s directive, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) commissioner, Mr. Bala Ciroma, told Abuja residents that the command had engaged adequate security measures to ensure a hitch-free celebration in the nation’s capital. The FCT command spokesperson, Mr. Anjuguri Manzah, explained that the police had put in place proactive security measures in Eid praying grounds, shopping malls, gardens, recreational spots, critical infrastructures, motor parks and other areas that would be a beehive of activities during the Sallah celebration. He enjoined FCT residents to be security conscious and report all suspicious movements to the nearest police formation or call the following police distress numbers: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653, and 08028940883.