To avoid a repeat of the frosty relationship between the executive and legislative arms of government during the 8th National Assembly, prominent Nigerians drawn from professional bodies, major ethnic groups, former ministers, and others have advised President Muhammadu Buhari to engage capable liaison officers. They said that the inability of the presidency and the National Assembly to work in harmony throughout the duration of the last NASS was largely due to the inability of the liaison officers to rise to the challenge when their services were desperately needed. Consequently, they asked the president to learn from the mistakes of the past and appoint competent persons who would work with him to cement his relationship with the lawmakers. Among those who spoke on the matter with LEADERSHIP Sunday were former minister of sports, Mr Bala Ka’oje, the secretary-general of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Mr Anthony Sani, chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State, Umar Yahaya, Mannaseh Istifanus, and a public affairs commentator, Elder Dare Adebanjo. They were unanimous in calling for a new dawn in executive-legislative relationship in the interest of Nigerians and the country’s democracy LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt that amongst the people lined up for the jobs of the liaison officers to NASS are a former minister from the North West zone who once served in that capacity. Sources disclosed that some associates and aides of the president were unhappy that despite having liaison officers at the National Assembly, the relationship between Buhari and the legislature throughout the 8th Assembly remained soured. According to one of the sources, “the president does not want anything less than a sound relationship with the 9th Assembly and that is why he has already lined up competent people to serve as his liaison officers. “What happened in the 8th Assembly ought not to be if the liaison officers did their job well. With the people lined up, the president wants a cordial relationship without compromising the independence of the two arms of government,” he said. Some Nigerians noted that the absence of cohesion between the presidency and the National Assembly led to the 8th Senate passing more than 300 bills with Buhari declining assent to over 40 of them. They attributed the development to lack of collaboration and consultation between the two arms. It was learnt that for the first time, The Nigerian Senate passed over 300 bills since 1999 unlike the fifth Senate, which passed 129 bills, the sixth72, and the seventh 128 bills. The immediate past presidential aide on National Assembly Maters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang once told LEADERSHIP Sunday that Buhari’s non-assent to bills was not an indication of any crisis between the executive and the legislature, adding that the lawmakers had agreed with the president in most of the bills. But a presidency source said that the non-confirmation of Buhari’s nominees and the delay in the budget passage were the failures of the liaison officers to the National Assembly to hold meetings with the leadership of the Assembly before the presentation of the would-be appointees. He said: “The liaison officers were supposed to be organising meetings with the president and ensure that if the president is travelling, he picks some members of the National Assembly in his entourage. That was not done and he won’t want to continue in that line.” During an orientation session organised for the new members of the National Assembly, former Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki, said that the presidency would have lobbied or nominated another person to replace Ibrahim Magu as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) boss after the Senate rejected him. The source said that Saraki’s statement was a clear testimony that the president’s liaison officers and political advisers did little to strengthen the relationship between the executive and the legislature without infringing on the principles of separation of powers. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that part of the president’s preparation for smooth inter-arm government collaboration prompted his quick proclamation of the 9th National Assembly members for last Tuesday. In lending his voice on the need for the president to appoint competent persons as liaison officers to National Assembly, Ka’oje told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the crises during the last dispensation were surmountable if the liaison officers were on guard. Ka’oje said: “There were crises because from the beginning there was a big error by the APC because it didn’t manage the situation that led to the selection of the National Assembly leadership. “Working on such a process, politically, it’s very important for every government because the National Assembly being an arm of government has serious roles to play and unless there is an amicable relationship between the executive and the National Assembly, the executive will find it difficult to have things done with ease. “So, those people appointed by the president to provide the vital link to me were not the best. That model was not the right. I know that in the past, we have a model that was very good. The model that goes with a special adviser to the president with two special assistants is ideal. “The two special assistants, one can be a woman so that the female legislators won’t say they are sidelined. So, if you have that all working for the president in trying to ensure that the relationship is cordial, I believe that will be the best model because the last model was a complete failure.” “We have done it before and it work very well. We had Florence Ita-Giwa as special adviser; I and another colleague were appointed special assistants. With this, we had close relationship with the lawmakers. We visited them in their houses and hold interactions with them and planned meetings for them with the president from time to time in small numbers. We also ensured that the president take some of them in his entourage whenever he was traveling. “We did so many things that made the relationship cordial and that is the model the president should adopt, “ Ka’oje said. To Mr Sani (ACF scribe), the frosty relationship between the executive and legislature during the last tenure had more to do with the differences in vision and perception by the leadership of the two arms of the government. Sani said: “This was a result of how the APC was formed ab initio, a coalition of individuals and political parties with different political tendencies that manifested and resulted in defection during the era. “What is more, some members of the minority party became part of the leadership of the NASS, thereby playing both roles of governance and providing opposition to the government at the same time. Imagine a member of the opposition party sometime presiding over the NASS. That was odd and run against the tenets of democracy as majority rule,” Sani said. According to Yahaya (APC chieftain), going by the principles of separation of powers, the executive and the legislature’s face-off is inevitable. He said: “Still, one will expects a smooth passage of executive bills and minimal conflict in situation where the president’s party is having the majority in the parliament. Going back to the 8th Senate, the seed of the face-off was planted during the election of parliament’s leadership and of course, the inability of liaison officers to create and sustain a good interface with the lawmakers on critical issues such as budget delayed and confirmation of appointments were worrisome,” he said. Istifanus (another APC chieftain), said he expect the 9th National Assembly to be more friendly in its dealings with the executive, adding that he wants a Senate with a cordial working relationship where budgets and people-oriented bills sail through for the benefit of Nigerians. Adebanjo said that because the people Buhari appointed during the 8th NASS did not do their job properly, the executive and the legislators were always on the warpath. “I think it is the fault of the people the president appointed because they were economical with the truth. A former senator was the liaison officer who knows how the legislature works; unfortunately, he could not establish that good working relationship. On the other hand maybe he did not advise the president appropriately. We know that the president listens,” he said.