A new analysis released yesterday by Visa Inc. has disclosed that financial institutions were able to prevent an estimated $25 billion in annual fraud with the use of artificial intelligence, thus making the global payment ecosystem safer for retailers and consumers. The banks deployed Visa Advanced Authorisation (VAA) to help financial institutions block the fraud. Visa Advanced Authorisation is a layer of fraud prevention that can help drive down risk and fraud for financial institutions and retailers, and help reduce friction due to false declines for payment account holders. More than 8,000 financial institutions in 129 countries use Visa Advanced Authorisation. VAA is a comprehensive risk management tool that monitors and evaluates transaction authorisations on the Visa global payment network, VisaNet, in real time to help financial institutions promptly identify and respond to emerging fraud patterns and trends. Visa processed more than 127 billion transactions between merchants and financial institutions on VisaNet last year, and employed AI to analyse 100 per cent of the transactions—each in about one millisecond—so financial institutions can approve legitimate purchases while quickly identifying and preventing fraudulent transactions. Senior vice president and global head of Data, Risk and Identity Products and Solutions, Visa Melissa McSherry said, “One of the toughest challenges in payments is separating good transactions made by account holders from bad ones attempted by fraudsters without adding friction to the process. “Visa was the first payment network to apply neural network-based AI in 1993 to analyze the riskiness of transactions in real time, and the impact on fraud was immediate. By striking the right balance between human expertise and technology innovation, we continue to evolve our capabilities as new AI breakthroughs expand the realm of what’s possible.” For financial institutions, friction in the payment process can lead to the abandonment of a payment card. A study by Javelin Strategy & Research revealed more than half of cardholders affected by false declines (51 percent) used a secondary payment card to complete the purchase at the same merchant, which can push a competitor’s card to the top of wallet. However, removing friction cannot come at the expense of identifying and preventing fraud, as a survey by the National Retail Federation and Forrester discovered, that the top payment-related challenge faced by retailers is fraud, as cited by 55 per cent of those surveyed.