The shockwaves of recent bandits’ attack in no fewer than seven villages in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State are yet to abate as about 4000 women and children have fled to the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Camp in Faskari before this weekend. Confirming the development, the spokesman of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Umar Mohammed, said the IDPs’ figure stood at 3991 as at Thursday morning from about 1770 on Saturday, June 1st, 2019. He revealed that the additional IDPs trooped in from Birnin Kogo, Unguwar Tsamiya, Kafi Zuru, Kwari, Bangi and Unguwar Marke villages said to be at risk of banditry, killings and cattle rustling. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that gunmen recently attacked the communities in their numbers leaving in their trail, blood, tears and sorrows as most of the IDPs at Faskari Model Primary School had tales of woes to tell. One of the victims of the attacks at Birnin Kogo and mother of five, Binta Muhammad, lamented that two of the gunmen burst into their homes around 10pm last Sunday as a gang of bandits raided the village for about two hours for their valuables including domestic animals. A community leader in the area and retired Education Secretary in the Faskari Local Government Education Authority, Musa Aliyu, attributed the deteriorating security in the villages to inadequate manpower and logistics for the security operatives deployed to Faskari to confront the suspected bandits in their hideouts in the forest. Aliyu lamented that the assurances of government’s decisive intervention in their ordeal were yet to manifest as many communities were still grappling with insecurity and attendant loss of lives and property. He said: “The situation is very distressful; people can’t sleep in their houses, they can’t go to their farms or even defend their families because these bandits come with fully armed automatic rifles unlike our people with Dane guns. So, at any time of the day, they can invade any community and cart away the property of our people.” “We are appealing to government to come to our aid because there is nothing we can do; we cannot defend ourselves, even the few security operatives in the area cannot address the situation due to inadequate arms and logistics to confront the bandits in the forest and return safely.