Barely a week after being sworn in as Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-olu said he has lost weight. Speaking to State House correspondents yesterday, he said being Lagos State governor is not a tea party as the challenges are real. According to him, “Well, the experience is real, it has got to show that the challenges are real, they are there, it’s not a tea party. You don’t sleep and wake up and the traffic has gone down, you don’t sleep and wake up and there is no rain and you’ve resolved Apapa gridlock, it’s real. “So it’s something that has psychologically prepared one for. The best thing to do is to ensure that you are not about looking for what the other person did but it’s for Lagosians to see you do what you said you are going to do for them. You don’t do it from the office, you have to do it from the road, you have to do it so that people will see and truly know that you mean business. “I dare say that I have lost weight and probably will lose a little bit more but I think it’s what the job entails and it’s to also ensure that you have the right team of people that would support you. “So, when, as a leader, you show that leadership support, then the message itself trickles down very well and that is why we have to take that very bold idea and you’re going to see a lot. On the level of progress on the Apapa gridlock, he said, “It’s a work in progress. If you go to Lagos now, you will see that they have started clearing it. For us, it’s not just to do it but also, to ensure that we sustain it. Disclosing that sustainability is critical, Sanwo -Olu added that it’s to build a model where it’s sustainable and his administration has been involving and discussing with the big players like the shippers’ council, shipping lines, NPA, NIMASA. On the governors’ meeting with the president and how it relates to Lagos and his own strategy, the governor said security is everybody’s business. He stated, “Security is everybody’s business but as governors, we also have a major responsibility to ensure that as number one security officers of our states, security of lives and properties are also paramount.