Apparently overwrought by the devastating effect of bandits’ attacks in the Northern part of the country, wife of the president, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, yesterday challenged security chiefs to quickly end banditry and other security challenges in parts of the country. Mrs Buhari who made the imploration in Katsina State while distributing relief materials to over 25,000 victims of bandits’ attacks, said it was necessary to degrade the criminals before they end the civil population. “The security agents should either assist in taking action or allow the situation continue until bandits finish killing our people,” she said. She noted that it had become necessary for all well-meaning Nigerians to talk about things that were going wrong in the country, so as to elicit necessary action. Aisha said, “We are not supposed to be here giving rice, milk and others items to victims of an incident during Ramadan period. We should not keep silent while things are happening thinking that if something happens today it will not happen tomorrow. “What happened today will happen tomorrow; it will also happen next tomorrow if we keep silent. It is compulsory to speak the truth. It is not proper for us to give highest number of votes during the general elections and allow bandits continue killing people and keep quiet. We must speak on whatever is going wrong in the country”. Mrs Buhari disclosed that she and wives of former governors of Nasarawa, Bayelsa, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom (Sen Godswill Akpabio), were among those who donated the relief materials to the victims. Earlier, the district head of Katsina, Alhaji Aminu Abdulmumini, thanked the president’s wife for the gesture, just as he called on the government to intensify efforts toward addressing the menace. “These people need assistance, but they want the government to address the situation to enable them continue with their normal life. Almost on daily basis, we hear sound of Nigerian Air Force fighter jets; yet, bandits are killing people; we don’t know what is happening,” he said. The items distributed by Mrs Buhari to no fewer than 25,988 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) included rice, milk, sugar and clothes among others. The IDPs were from Batsari, Kurfi, Faskari, Danmusa, Jibia, Safana, Kankara local government areas. Mrs Buhari also urged the National Social Investment Programme (N-SIP) to support poor people in Katsina State, including those devastated by banditry. She regretted that although N500 billion was released by the federal government to assist vulnerable Nigerians, only a few had benefited. “National Social Investment Programme should go to Katsina State and give them their assistance. These people gave over one million votes during the general elections; they really need the assistance and they deserve to be given,” she said.  PMB Seeks Coordinated Approach To Terrorism, Banditry Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday that many member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) were grappling with serious security problems, including terrorism, violent extremism and armed criminality. The Nigerian leader who read the collective statement of African countries at the 14th Summit of the OIC in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, noted that some of these challenges have assumed grave dimensions in recent times and required serious and coordinated approach for lasting solutions. In the statement read in the early hours of yesterday, Buhari said, ‘‘In addition to the core issue of the restoration of the national rights of the Palestinians and other long-standing unresolved conflicts, we now grapple with serious security problems represented by the destructive activities of terrorists, violent extremists and armed criminals in many of OIC Member States. ‘‘This situation has also been compounded by a series of political crises, which continue to affect a number of our countries. In this regard, we support the actions of the OIC in seeking an early resolution to the lingering Palestinian question and the rights of the Palestinian people to an independent homeland. “We equally subscribe to the various actions of the OIC in resolving the crises in Syria, Yemen and Libya. We commend OIC engagement with other international actors in addressing the various political conflicts in the OIC region and the plight of the Rohingya Muslim minority in Myanmar’’. The president also passed a vote of confidence on the intervention programmes of the various institutions under OIC for the impact they are making on Nigeria and other African countries, saying they should do more by adopting a coordinated approach in the fight against banditry and terrorism. Buhari commended the robust interventions of the Islamic Development Bank, IDB, in key sectors such as agriculture, trade and investment. He said, “The robust interventions of the various OIC Institutions and principally the Islamic Development Bank Group, have been effective in such key sectors as trade and investment, agriculture, rural development and food security, science, technology and innovation, poverty alleviation as well as women and youth empowerment.’’ In the specific case of Nigeria, the president acknowledged the support of OIC Member States in countering the menace of terrorism and armed criminality in West Africa, the Lake Chad area and the Sahel Countries. “In particular, Nigeria acknowledges the support of OIC Member States in countering the menace of terrorism and armed criminality in West Africa, the Lake Chad area and the Sahel Countries. We appreciate their contributions in the alleviation of the humanitarian crisis arising from the insurgency but urge them to do more,” he said. President Buhari also commended OIC institutions for supporting development projects aimed at achieving rapid socio-economic development in Nigeria. He highlighted the Inter-Water Basic transfer, aimed at recharging the Lake Chad, the National Food Security Programme, the Second Niger Bridge, various roads and school rehabilitation projects as some projects in Nigeria that have attracted the support of OIC institutions. On issues of concurrent global significance, President Buhari said the African members of the OIC were pleased with renewed efforts by the organization for the restoration of the national rights of the Palestinians and other long-standing unresolved conflicts. President Buhari also expressed confidence that the on-going political transition in Sudan and Algeria would be concluded smoothly and peacefully. He thanked King Salman Bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud for hosting and chairing the 14th OIC Summit and the Turkish President, Recep Erdogan, whose tenure just ended for “his commitment to the ideals of our Organization and his efforts in ensuring that the OIC achieves its set goals and objectives, throughout his tenure as Chairman.”  . . . Hosts Lake Chad Security Summit June 12 Also, President Buhari hinted yesterday that he will host leaders of the Lake Basin Commission to an informal Security Summit on the sidelines of his forthcoming Second Term inaugural ceremonies slated for June 12 in Abuja. The president made this known during a bilateral meeting with the Chadian President, Idris Deby, in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, on the sidelines of the meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). According to the president, the summit is to come up with new strategies to bring to a permanent end to the Boko Haram terrorism being faced by the countries of the Lake Chad region. Malam Garba Shehu, the president’s senior special assistant on media and publicity, in a statement, said the two presidents agreed that “the time has now come for the regional leaders to sit down to agree on how to change the unwinding nature of the war. “This is to achieve a sustained operation, to continue until the threat is brought to a permanent closure”. The Nigerian leader noted that now that elections were over and he is now back in full force, it was time for “a new way forward that removes completely’’ the threat of terrorism from the Lake Chad sub-region. Shehu continued: “The two leaders shared information on the oncoming rainy season and challenges that it poses for the ongoing military operations. They agreed on the need for urgent operational measures before that time. “They also talked about how the meeting in Abuja should respond to the infiltration through Libya of the displaced elements of the Daesh, which is an acronym of ISIL’s Arabic name al-Dawlah al-Islamīyah fī l-ʻIrāq wa-sh-Shām into the Lake Chad area”.  NAF Degrades Insurgents’ Hideout In Borno Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) said yesterday that its Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE has degraded a terrorists’ hideout at Abaganaram in the Northern part of Borno State. NAF director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, who announced this in a statement in Abuja, said the operation was carried out on Friday. He said, “The attack, which took place on Friday, May 31 was executed following the discovery of the active terrorists’ settlement by a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) platform on a routine mission. “Accordingly, the ATF scrambled two Alpha Jet aircraft to attack the location, scoring accurate hits on three target compounds, which resulted in the destruction of the structures as well as the neutralisation of some of their fighters”. Daramola said the NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, would sustain the effort to completely degrade the terrorists in the North-East.