Recently, there was an altercation between the Rivers State government and some military personnel posted to the region to check militancy and fight the scourge of oil theft. The altercation had to do with allegations by the state government that some of the soldiers, including some high ranking ones, have become part of the problem that illegal bunkering constitutes. We are not in any way about to get involved in the quarrel between the state government and the security agencies as regards who is or who is not involved in the illicit act of illegal bunkering. Our concern is that in spite of the military presence in the Niger Delta area, the illegal business that has continued to be a drain on the nation’s economic resource still thrives. Oil theft became part of the resource base of terrorists long before the Amnesty Programme of the Federal government. With it was reported incidences of illegal oil bunkering and unauthorized local refineries in the Niger Delta. Nigerians thought that with Amnesty and the Federal Government’s efforts to integrate youths from the oil rich region into the main stream of economic activities through training and other activities, those acts of economic sabotage will end. That has turned out to be a seemingly unrealisable expectation as illegal oil bunkering remains a lucrative business. The Nigerian Navy, at some point, reported that the nation loses a very conservative sum of $20 billion annually.  In an instance, oil thieves were said to be stealing an estimated 55,210 barrels of oil per day, which translate to a monthly average of 1,656,281 barrels. Similarly, the United States Institute of Peace, in a report at the peak of the malfeasance, revealed that between 30,000 and 300,000 barrels of oil per day are carted away by oil thieves who operate in Niger Delta. According to the report, an approximately US$100 billion was lost from illegal oil bunkering between 2003 and 2008. Actually, the figure could be higher now. Recently, it was announced in the media that the Navy discovered some illegal refining facilities, made some arrests and destroyed those illegal refineries. Observers of what is going on in the area are by no means impressed by such tokenism in the fight against illegal bunkering. The allegation is persistent that the security agencies have become active participants in the thriving act that is haemorrhaging the economy No thanks to the economic sabotage of oil bunkering, humongous amount of money are put in the hands of criminals, non-state actors and, most lamentably politicians, some of whom are believed to be amassing not just arms and ammunition but also enough wealth to perpetuate and sustain their illegal business with all the threat it poses to the nation’s security. This newspaper is at a loss as to why the fight against oil theft is becoming a perennial problem even with the presence of the nation’s security agencies. There is no point reasserting the fact that illegal oil bunkering threatens the survival of the nation’s economy. We also see no reason why the situation cannot be tamed with the presence of security operatives. It is sad to note, in our opinion, that Nigeria is the only oil-producing nation that, though not at war, still grapples with the challenges of illegal bunkering. Government must overhaul the security operations in the region beginning with a change in the leadership structure of the agencies and thoroughly search to establish whether or not evidence of collusion as alleged by residents exists. Furthermore, the military high command ought to see the justifiability of limiting the time frame of each contingent’s tour of duty as a way of eliminating the probability of collusion between the security operatives and the thieves they are out to catch. We had made this argument before and we are compelled by recent developments in the area to repeat the call that the security high command need to pay more than cursory attention to the conduct of their officers and men. But most importantly, we urge the government to intensify efforts to fish out the big players in the illegal trade. Considering the quantity of the product involved which requires a huge outlay of logistics, limiting the search to militants and some small fries trying to eke out a living in the face of biting economic downturn is counter-productive when the real terrorists and main gangs are at large and prospering. Some of them, we dare to say, are big time politicians and bigwigs in society who believe that they can get away with murder. They are the ones who must be traced, arrested and prosecuted. This will serve as deterrent to others and reduce the incidences of oil theft to the barest minimum, if not totally eradicated. What is required is the political will to do the needful.