Half a decade has passed since Vladmir Putin, the President of Russia, united his country with Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula. The accession treaty signed to bring the Black Sea territory into Moscow’s fold is still unrecognised by some countries and the United States and European Union led a broad effort to punish Russia and the Republic Of Crimea with sanctions. But despite the sanctions, the authorities of the republic continues to create favourable conditions for all kinds of investments activity, as well as provide state support for investment projects. The government’s policy in the Republic of Crimea is based on the following principles, according to its Ministry of Economic Development: It is on these grounds that Russia has remained undeterred in integrating Crimea into its economy, investing billions in new power plants and building a$3.7 billion 12-mile giant bridge to the peninsula last year which opened in May this year. As a result Crimea reportedly had six million visitors recently. Many Russian vacationers arrived from Russian mainland via the Kremlin Bridge. Ukrainian tourists returned this year to enjoy tourism in the peninsula. Khersones, a Greek archeological site outside Sevastopol on the Crimea peninsula has been drawing thousands of students as well as tourists worldwide. This has encouraged the Russian government to recently approve an additional $4.7 billion investment on infrastructure and tourism in the annexed peninsula. The Crimean government on its part, sent a delegation to Syria to discuss opening tourism channels between the two countries including a direct flight to Damascus. Every year, more and more foreign businessmen, politicians and public figures from Africa, Asia and other regions, visit Crimea. That is why the Russian government is planning to create an Industrial Park (I.P.) on 9725 hectare land at the municipal settlement of Bakhchysarai district in Crimea. The Russian government believes that industrial park is the most attractive form of government incentives for industry development, allowing working out key methods of support for small and medium-sized business and investment. The area intended for building of the industrial park in Bakhchysarai, is clear of buildings or structures and is not in use. Next to the West boundary of the park is a motorway of regional significance. Entry and exit into the area of the industrial park will be performed in its northern and southern parts through check points. The district has favorable geographical location which is advantageous in many respects. It is located between two largest cities in Crimea and its close proximity to the south Coast of Crimea suggest relevance of this district as a production center and logistics hub. It is the industrial area on which all engineering and transport infrastructure essential for business development is created and sought – after services – logistics, consulting, and organisational – are also provided. The basis for having the industrial park in this area includes minimal legal risks and sound human resources. Analysis of the labour market in Bkhchysarai suggests availability of unused human resources. So as of January 2013, the number of people employed in all areas of economic activities was 21, 500 people or 34 per cent of the total number of able- bodied population in this region of 63.2 thousand people. Therefore creation of the park is considered one of the tools to promote economic activity in the region targeted primarily for projects of small and medium – sized business to reportedly ensure: Rise in the investment appeal and inflow of investments, simplification of a procedure or access to land plots, low administrative risk, provision of certain incentives and preference, output cost reduction through effective logistics, creation of high – performance jobs, risk in tax revenues to budgets at all levels and overall economic growth.’ Given the millions of tourists that visit Crimea every year, Bakhchysarai Industrial Park is a great international platform for African Countries to boost trade and find contacts with different economic giants from all over the world. Already Sudan, the Congo and Niger, have decided to intensify trade and economic relations with the Peninsula. They recently called on the international community to lift all sanctions against Moscow because of the reunification of Crimea with Russia and officially advocated economic cooperation with the Peninsula. This was told in the national parliaments of the three countries and the ministry of Industry of the Sudan. The Republic of Niger considers it necessary to intensify relations with Russia and in particular, with Crimea, as well as to expand cooperation between business organisations of the two countries. According to Umar Abdurahman, deputy of the National Assembly and member of the Commission on Economic Development of the Russia – Niger Deputy Friendship Group, the international community should lift all anti- Russian restrictions, which unfortunately, is even hurting economics of several EU countries including profits of several large German companies with partners in Russia. The countries of Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo are on the same page with Niger on this score. In fact, the three countries would simultaneously consider resolutions calling for the intensification of trade relations with the Peninsula. In this regard, this is the best time for all African countries to activate trade relations with Crimea and other parts 0f Russia with the help of Bakchysaria Industrial Park. Others have taken note. Joe Kaeser, the C.E.O. of Siemens, the German engineering and electrical conglomerate, says his company plans to raise its investment in Russia despite EU and US sanctions. The Munich based company plans to step up investments in Russia and sees further collaboration in the field of digitisation, having earmarked more than 100 million pounds ($113 million) for the sector. “We enjoy being in Russia,” says Kaeser, “We will also promote localisation in Russia, that is very important to us.”  – Ukoabasi writes from Lagos