In this piece, KAUTHAR ANUMBA KHALEEL writes on moves by the main opposition in the House of Representatives to strike a deal with the ruling APC in the face of threats of isolation in the 9th House With the date for the inauguration of the 9th Assembly now a few days, contenders for the seat of the speaker of the House of Representatives are intensifying efforts to woo colleagues who in their opinions are instrumental to their emergence or defeat. While some of the contestants have dropped out of the race and formed alliances, others are forging ahead with their ambitions regardless of the odds and, are willing to strike a bargain with the opposition to get more support. Barring last minute changes, the contest is among Femi Gbajabiamila, the preferred candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mohammed Bago,  John Dyegh, Segun Odebunmi, Jide Olatunbosun and the only female in the contest, Nkiruka Onyejeocha. But as the clock ticks, the aspirants, who are not oblivious of the role the opposition in the contest have continued to lobby them. This is in spite of the fact that some of them, particularly the Gbajabiamila camp, have confidently and repeatedly laid claims to figures that would coast them to victory. This figure according to the Director-General of the Gbajabiamila campaign Organisation, Abdulmumuni Jibrin, is made up of members of the opposition. It will be recalled that recently, Jibrin remarked that Gbajabiamila had a comfortable and verifiable figure that would lead him to victory. “We wish to inform you that at this moment, we have the numbers to win the election on the 10th of June.” He continued, “Interestingly, we also have a large number of members from the PDP and other opposition parties who have also indicated interest, written interest that they are going to be with us.” While the aspirants are counting numbers, the main opposition party in the House, the Peoples Democratic Party, on the other hand, is also doing all it can to ensure that it is not left out in as it relates to headship of committees of the House as it commenced negotiations last week with the ruling APC to strike a deal. Understandably, the caucus’ concern over the possibility of being left out in the scheme of things cannot be divorced from statement made by the national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomole, that the ruling party would not share committee chairmen with the opposition. It would be recalled that Oshiomole in March, stated that the APC would not share committee headship with opposition party and it would ensure that all but one committee, PAC (which is the constitution stipulates must be headed by the opposition) would be headed by only APC members. A statement that was met with criticism. In the light of this, aspirants for the position of the Speaker last week, met with the members of the PDP to speak on their aspiration by outlining their manifestos and policies they have for the 9th House. The event which was at the instance of the minority party whose number just grew from 121 to 128 following a Supreme Court judgement that ceded seven seats to the opposition in Zamfara State, saw each contestant outlining their plans for the House but particularly, the opposition when elected speaker. In their presentations before the group, the contenders pointed to the fact that the opposition especially the PDP, is as important as members of the APC in the contest and in the running of the House hence, the need to factor them in the scheme of things. Frontline aspirant, Bago, while addressing the crowd, stressed the importance of an all-inclusive House and assured them that chairmanship of committees would be shared proportionately among all parties as opposed to Oshiomole’s declaration. “When it comes to the issue of the House, it is important that everyone, irrespective of party affiliation be carried along. Political parties are important vehicles and we are here as an institution working for the same cause – nation building; nobody should be maligned because of his party. As your Speaker, chairmanship of committees will be distributed equitably and proportionately.” On his part, Gbajabiamila who preferred to speak with lawmakers behind closed doors was reported to have faulted Oshiomole’s statement and promised to give the opposition committee chairmen in addition to setting up a committee to draw up a sharing formula. A member who spoke to LEADERSHIP, informed that the aspirant “promised to give us committee chairmen and told us that his party chairman didn’t understand how the House worked. He (Gbajabiamila) also promised to set up a committee that would determine how committee leadership would be shared.” He also reportedly dismissed insinuations that the APC National leader and his godfather, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, would likely interfere in the business of the House by dictating for him. The lawmaker said “Gbajabiamila told us that every politician has a godfather but someone in Lagos will not determine committee chairmen for him or how he will run the House, if he is elected.” Another member who spoke to LEADERSHIP, however, expressed concern over the sincerity of Gbajabiamila’s promises given that he chose to make them in private rather than before the media like other contestants did wondering whether the aspirant’s word could be taken for it. “He promised that he will work with us and ensure that the opposition chairs committees if he is elected, but I don’t know whether to believe him or not because, even though he said that no one would call the shots for him as Speaker, he didn’t want his party to know or hear what he had to tell us. That does not strike me like someone who could make decisions for himself. That is something to worry about no matter the promise he makes; it also means no one will hold him accountable to anything. That is what it means. “Basically, what this meeting was all about was to find how we, the opposition will be carried along and we wanted it said in the open so, I don’t get why his own is shrouded. But I can tell you that we will not settle or support any candidate that is not convincing enough. We need someone who truly understands that we are all partners even if we don’t belong to same party, someone who truly means what he or she says. But we have heard him, they have all spoken and we will review all their submissions and decide our next step”, the member said. The lawmaker’s last point was corroborated by the deputy leader of the minority, Chukwuma Onyema, when he informed that the caucus used the opportunity to list their plans with the purpose of reaching a deal that would benefit the opposition. He said, “The aspirants came to tell us why they want to be Speaker and what plans they have to improve the House as well as the relationship between members; all of them said they are aware that they can’t run the House without the minority parties especially the PDP, as against a statement credited to someone to that effect.” Onyema who spoke with journalist at the end of the meeting, also stated that the caucus did not have a preferred candidate yet adding that “we are going to sit as a caucus, analyze and deliberate on it and then, come up with our position. I hope we can strike a deal, but for now, there is none yet”. While this move by the PDP was aimed at reaching an understanding with the APC, over how sensitive positions would be shared and benefit the former, LEADERSHIP gathered that meeting was also to afford the caucus the opportunity to weigh the options of either supporting one of the candidates or fielding a candidate from its fold. And there are indications that the main opposition may leverage on the recent supreme court judgement in Zamfara State which saw to an increase in their numbers and nominate a candidate for the coveted position after all. Speaking on the party’s quest to forge an understanding with the contestants and the recent supreme court judgement, a PDP lawmaker noted that the opposition party would forge ahead with the deal despite the judgement but added that it had not ruled out the possibility of fielding a candidate for the position. “Whatever we are doing now is mainly to ensure that are not left out and we do not lose out at the end of the day. But the truth of the matter is that we have not foreclosed the idea of contesting for speakership; whatever we are doing now is ensuring we benefit like we ought to. But I’m sure you are aware of the Supreme Court judgment that gave us seven members of the House of Reps, three senators, a governor and 24 state House of Assembly members. So, I think we are positioned towards success and we are hoping that by June, we would have gained more members and if we do, we will contest”. The South-south lawmaker who pleaded anonymity, also noted that in view of the recent development, the PDP caucus would be meeting to chart a way forward. He said, “We will be meeting to review the meeting we had with contestants last week but importantly, we will also be looking at the events of the past days to determine the way forward”.