For the first time since he left office last year, former national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has spoken on the raging crisis in the ruling party and blamed it on his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. A blunt Odigie-Oyegun declared that Oshiomhole lacks the capacity to move the APC forward. Apparently reacting to a statement which six South-South state APC chairmen issued at the weekend, where they alleged that the current challenges facing the party were the landmines left by him, Odigie-Oyegun asserted that Oshiomhole lacked the temperament required to run a political party. He added that the APC chairman was bereft of the capacity to manage the different interests and tendencies that constitute a political party. Through a statement signed by his adviser on Public Affairs, Chief Ray Morphy, the former APC chairman advised Oshiomhole and the state chairmen to leave him alone and face their duties of running the party which seems to be overwhelming them. He added that the dwindling fortunes of the party, were caused by Oshiomhole. Odigie-Oyegun said: “He (Oshiomhole) engages his mouth before engaging his mind, so he offends party members, so how does that constitute booby traps by me, the erstwhile chairman. “Already, the deputy national chairman has confirmed that Oshiomhole runs the party without recourse to the National Working Committee (NWC). He acts in direct opposite of decisions taken by the NWC. “No minutes of NWC meetings which in any event take place outside the party secretariat. How would you not have crises in the states with the confusion that Oshiomhole created when he gave the states the freedom to choose their methods of choosing candidates for elections? Much of the crisis in states arose out of sheer incapacity on the part of the current chairman, how is this incapacity a booby trap by Odigie-Oyegun,” he asked. Odigie-Oyegun said that many party men were against what he described as “the unfairness and injustice meted them during the primaries process. “Only a bad carpenter quarrels with his tools. Indeed Oshiomhole is degrading and de-marketing the party; rather than seek to bring more people on board, he is rather chasing people out of the party with his style of engagement,” he alleged. While commenting on the matter, the Imo State APC chairman, Chief Marcelinus Nlemigbo, said that Odigie-Oyegun did his best for the party during his time, adding that Oshiomhole was also doing his bit to ensure that the party remains strong. Nlemigbo said: “The former national chairman tried his best even as the current national chairman is also doing his best. The issue on the table is that we must improve on what we have met on the ground. “The current national chairman will continue to do his best and we will support him in taking the party to the desired height,” he stated. Edo APC Faction Demands National Chairman’s Resignation Meanwhile, some stakeholders and members of Edo State chapter of the party under the aegis of Edo APC Coalition for Progress have asked Oshiomhole to immediately resign from his office. At a press conference held in Benin City, the state capital, the group charged Oshiomhole “to toe the path of honour,” stressing that he “is the one promoting nepotism in Edo politics” and the country at large. The group’s spokesman, Dr. Peter Ologun, said that his members would organise a one-million-man march against Oshiomhole in Abuja, the nation’s seat of power, should he fail “to immediately” step down as the helmsman of the party, insisting that they “no longer have confidence in him.” Ologun said that they were determined to “disown Oshiomhole” as a son of the “Heart Beat” state in the oil-rich South-South geopolitical zone “for leading the APC as an emperor,’ a development he maintained cost the party the “shameful” defeat in Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Imo States in the last general elections. He observed with dismay that President Muhammadu Buhari despite having the powers in his hands in the governance of this country, had never interfered in the affairs of Katsina State and other states, but, in Edo State the situation is different with Oshiomhole trying desperately to exert undue control. Ologun said: “Even in the height of the late Chief Tony Anenih’s reign, he took advantage of his influence in gaining political power at both state and national levels, but what we have seen in recent times in Edo State is a situation where Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is the one directly promoting nepotism in Edo and the national APC. “Oshiomhole’s resignation will help us recover the party from imminent collapse,” he said, adding that “the only way justice can be done to those involved in anti-party activities during the 2019 general elections is for Oshiomhole to resign from the party. “APC members now live in fear because of Oshiomhole’s ineptitude and behaviour. He has suddenly turned the state into a place of anarchy; from the position of being a leader to an emperor who does not take advice from anybody. We, stakeholders, feel that Edo State is above anybody. He has no capacity to lead the party and therefore he should honorably quit the party as the national chairman,” Ologun said. However, the convener of Edo People’s Movement, Henry Idahagbon, accused Governor Godwin Obaseki of sponsoring all kind of groups to rubbish Oshiomhole’s name. He said: “It is really sad and unfortunate that the Edo State government has embarked on a spending spree, sponsoring fake groups in the state to malign the name of the national chairman of the APC. The same Obaseki who sent people to London to beg Oshiomhole to forgive him of his sins; it’s shameful that he can resort to this. “The same government that says it does not give money to politicians but it can freely give cash to people just to rubbish the name of the man that brought that government to power. They have sponsored all kinds of lies against the national chairman but their attempt to bring Oshiomhole down will fail. “Majority of APC members across the nation are solidly behind the leadership of Oshiomhole, therefore, the personal ambition of a few cannot erode his laudable achievements since he became the chairman of this great party, APC,” he stated.