Adamawa State Police Command, have denied reports that arms was allegedly discovered in the Mosque inside the State Polytechnic Yola (SPY) premises. The report in one of the national dailies (not LEADERSHIP), alleged that, Governor Ahmadu  Fintiri, may shut down the  polytechnic, over the alleged discovery of arms in the mosque inside the school’s premises. The report alleged that, a non-academic staff (name withheld) had last week drawn the attention of security personnel to the matter. The police public relations officer (PPRO), DSP Suleiman Njuroje said, there was no such discovery in the polytechnic. “Our men was deployed to the institution to search, noting was recovered. “I think it is propaganda being circulated by people to create tension,” he said. Information Officer of the institution, Mr Albert Matilah while debunking the report said the rector of the polytechnic had ordered for the closure of the mosque between the hours of 8:00pm and 4:00am so that no student sleeps in the mosque. Matilah said, “People were sleeping in the mosque, and when the chief security officer reported the matter, the rector directed that the mosque henceforth be closed between 8:00pm and 4:00Am. The mosque is not a bedroom, where people would be sleeping. Whosoever, that is sleeping whether coming  from outside the school or inside the school the mosque is not a bedroom.” This is coming at a time the state government has constituted a visitation panel to unravel the circumstances behind the shoddy recruitments at the institution. The head of the panel, Professor Sa,ad Shago, said the visitation panel became necessary as the anomalies discovered are almost retarding the progress of the institution in terms of learning and administration. Shago observed that lack of regular visit to the Polytechnic and other state owned higher institutions has greatly  affected the academic and administrative development of the institutions. “Visitation panel is normal in higher institutions in the country. Four years for Polytechnic and five years for Universities is the set standard for visitations”, he stressed.