As the contest for who becomes the Senate President in the 9th Assembly nears its end, no fewer than 62 senators-elect have openly expressed their support for Sen. Ahmed Lawan in his quest to clinch the red chamber’s top job. At a news briefing yesterday in Abuja, secretary of the Lawan Campaign Organisation, Sen. Barau Jibrin said out of 62 senators-elect of the All Progressives Congress (APC), 60 had signed on to the “Lawan Project”, while a senator-elect of the Young Peoples Party YPP, Ifeanyi Uba, has also declared his support. He further explained that the list was initially 64 but was trimmed to 62 after a court nullified APC elections in Zamfara State.Speaking earlier, the chairman of the campaign committee, Yahaya Abdullahi,  had dispelled the notion that Lawan’s candidacy was an imposition by the party and the Presidency. “There was no imposition. There was only coincidence of opinion and that coincidence favoured us,” he said. Abbdullahi also clarified that meetings and campaigns had already started well before the party and the Presidency’s endorsement. Speaking at the event, Sen. Lawan assured his supporters that of the 44 Senators-elect of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), no fewer than 35 had also declared their support for him. Meanwhile, Lawan’s rival, Sen Ali Ndume, has said that he is not looking for endorsements but for votes on Election Day. He said, “You know clearly that there is a difference between endorsement and election. You would recall too that in 2015 that story of endorsement was canvassed. He had the endorsement but what happened on the floor of the Senate was different. This kind of thing has been there all along. We have seen endorsements against several elections. “We are there already and it shall become past in a question of hours from now. I believe that my colleagues  shall vote according to their conscience and they shall vote for a candidate that is more suitable for the position of the Senate President,” he said. “I am not bothered about endorsement; rather, I am more worried about the election. As I’ve said, I shall go into the election on Tuesday and it shall have two sides; it is either one loses or wins. I do my numbering, too, but I do my numbering, not by publishing my colleagues names.” Meanwhile, in the House of Representatives, barely 48 hours to the election of the Speaker, contestants for the office are engaged in last minute lobbying of lawmakers-elect and other stakeholders to garner support for victory. The major contenders, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Surulere 1), Mohammed Bago (APC, Chachanga) and Emeka Nwajiuba (APC, Ehimembano/ Ihitte Uboma/Obowo Okigwe South) are in their last minute campaign and lobbying. LEADERSHIP Sunday investigation reveals that the Gbajabiamila camp had already assured the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of juicy committee positions, if supported. Speaking on strategy for victory at the Tuesday election, Director General of the Gbajabiamila/Ahmed Wase ticket, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, told journalists yesterday that despite the confidence of the team for victory, with overwhelming support of the 223 members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House, it has also extended a hand of fellowship to PDP members in the Lower Chamber who, he said, are now working for his team. “We’re not taking anything for granted”, he said. “We’ve closed ranks with a group in PDP. We have over 60 PDP members working for us. There is nothing anybody can do to take them because they are supporting us based on conviction.” He added that the group had assured the over 60 in the major opposition party of juicy committee positions as an inducement, even as he asserted that the group had secured the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the APC. He however noted that: “Before Femi’s endorsement by the party, the President, the governors and a majority of us the lawmakers had agreed that he is the Speaker that we want. It was after that decision that other endorsements came. “As it is today, he has massive support across party lines. In 2015, the APC was just only guarding its votes because we believed then that we had the number to win the election. We didn’t bother about anything, but the PDP was concentrating on how to poach the APC members and that was how the election was won. “But this time round, the APC is more comfortable because we have more numbers with our 223. But even at that, our campaign is more aggressive towards poaching the PDP members than the aggression of the PDP members trying to poach our members. “As it is today, the reality of the matter is that the PDP has been split into two factions. We have been open in negotiating with both factions. We have sealed a deal with one of the factions and we are still talking with the other faction. “We are only doing that as a safety net. We do not need the whole of the PDP members to win the election. In fact, we may not even need a vote from the PDP because we are guarding our 223 votes religiously. “But as a safety net, we have already over 60 members of the PDP working with us. There is nothing you can do to change the minds of these PDP members because their support is based on their conviction that Gbajabiamila and Wase are the best to occupy those positions at this time. “On the aspect of responsibility in the parliament, we are always reluctant mentioning this but it is the reality: sharing of committees and the rest. We have offered 60 positions. “If not that the party has been broken into two factions, it is what we would have offered to all of them, but since we have concluded with one faction, we have given them that offer and they have accepted it. “We have 60 of them and they are going to have 60 offices. It means that every one of them will have a particular position to hold in the next House. “Before the endorsement, we lawmakers identified him as the Speaker we all want”, Jibrin said, describing Gbajabiamila as a popular and acceptable aspirant to all the House of Representatives members-elect. Meanwhile, Gbajabiamila’s rival, Bago, is however counting on his one-on-one campaign among lawmakers-elect even as he described his ambition as being borne out of the need for justice, fairness and equity. Director-general of his campaign, Afam Ogene, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that his candidate is the aspirant to beat in the Tuesday vote. “Our campaign mantra is sitting on a tripod viz: equality, justice and fairness. Bago’s Speakership is running on the basis of all-inclusiveness. It’s not run by an individual. Once there is puppetry anywhere, the credibility of that office is at stake”. He added that Bago was competent for the office, with the needed human managerial ability as well as being a loyal party man that has been a Buhari loyalist since the days of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). “The South West has produced the Vice President, and it will be unjust to also zone the Speaker there, especially considering the fact that the North Central, where Bago hails from, did better than South West during the just concluded general elections. “The vice president is from South West and you want the speaker too to come from Lagos, no that’s not equity. We are in the race because of this inequity that the North-Central has suffered for over 20 years. “There is no retreat, no surrender. Honestly speaking, we are in for this game and it is non-negotiable. North Central has never produced a speaker for 20 years and in the last election it was rated third in terms of votes garnered for the party. “If the position of speaker is zoned out of North Central, then it is a glaring injustice to the zone. It has worked hard for our party,” he said. He also noted that Bago was enjoying the support of former lawmakers of the House, who, according to him, are educating members-elect on the stuff and qualities to look for in picking their Speaker. Afam, however, dismissed the purported endorsement of Gbajabiamila both by President Buhari and the APC leadership, saying that those branding endorsement are merely dropping names. Meanwhile, former Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Roland Owie has advised in-coming members of the House of Representatives to elect a speaker from the South-East to ensure that the Igbo are not marginalized in the next dispensation. Senator Owie stated this while speaking on the ambition of Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba to become the next speaker of the House of Representatives. Owie said that the emergence of a speaker from the South-East would balance the polity and ensure that accusations of marginalisation and exclusion by the South-East stop. He further said that it would be unjust to deny the South-East the speakership of the House when the North-West and the South-West had produced the President and Vice President respectively. He added that it was also clear that the North-East would produce the President of Senate and wondered why Nigeria would keep the Igbo out of leadership positions in the Executive and Legislative arms of government, warning that such a scenario would cause restiveness in the region. Senator Owie expressed support for Hon. Nwajiuba, insisting that his  emergence as speaker would calm frayed nerves in the South-East and help in bringing all sections of Nigeria together for national development. The former chief whip pleaded with the South-West to support a South-East speaker for equity and fairness in the country. He posited that since the Vice President was from the South-West, the Yoruba should be content with that and make sacrifice for national unity by allowing  the South-East take over the leadership of the House of Representatives. In the same vein, a group, Chuba Okadigbo Rainbow Organization has also pleaded with President Buhari and the APC leadership to allow Hon. Nwajiuba become speaker in the interest of fairness. The national chairman of the group, Dr. James Okoroma described Nwajiuba as a true APC man who would work harmoniously with the executive and his colleagues to build the nation. .