The chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), in Abia State, Hon Nkem Okoro has insisted that APGA is intact in the state despite the antics of few disgruntled members. “Abia APGA is intact, indivisible and purposeful under our amiable dynamic leader and 2019 general election governorship candidate, Dr. Alex Chioma Otti.” Okoro stated this in his maiden press briefing in Umuahia, the capital, saying his team is recognized by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) up to the ward level. The newly elected chairman of the APGA described a similar event in the state as an illigality perpetrated by some usurpers and hoodlums who want to hijack the APGA in the state for their selfish interest. According to the leader of the 26-man State Working Committe (SWC) of the APGA,  the exercise was masterminded by the former chairman, Rev Augustine Ehiemere and his co-travellers. The two term Arochukwu Local Government Council chairman, said the exercise was nothing but a sham and nullity, hence a court of competent jurisdiction declared it null and void. “In as much as we don’t intend to join issues with the former chairman and his sponsors and paymasters, the salient and incontrovertible fact remains that Abia APGA is intact,” he argued. According to him, the aim of the disgruntled members is to cause dissatisfaction among members of the APGA and its supporters to distract Otti from pursing his political agenda to liberate the state. “We hereby declare our unequivocal support and absolute loyalty to Otti as he deligently pursues his petition at the Abia Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Umuahia,” he noted. He passed an implicit vote of confidence on Otti “for providing the rightful leadership by making APGA a leading opposition party and the voice of the groaning masses in the state since 2014 till date.” Okoro said his leadership would equally work on the side of the people of the state by resisting through legimate means any attempt by those hijackers masquading as leaders of the APGA in the state. Speaking further, the chairman explained that the “hijacker and usurpers” were recruited by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the state government to derail the APGA in the state. The SWC among others include Elvis Wabara, Onyebuchi Onyegbule, Maureen Okoronkwo, Nnamdi Nwanganga, and Ebere Uzoukwa as deputy chairman, secretary, tresurer, financial secretary and publicity secretary respectively. 