The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has tasked the new government on economic diversification. Reviewing the last government administration performance, the director-general of LCCI, Muda Yusuf said that the Nigeria’s economy grew by about four percent in the first quarter of 2015. “However, in the subsequent quarters, the economy witnessed a downward trend, reaching a low of -2.3 per cent in third quarter, 2016. This was largely as a result of sharp decline in oil price and oil production. “The economy has since recovered from the recession and now on a growth path.  The annual average growth from the first quarter of 2015 till date is 1.05 per cent. The latest GDP report indicate a growth of 2.0 per cent in first quarter,” he said. Yusuf stated that the growth performance over the past four years has been fragile driven largely by the non-oil sector which is itself grappling with severe productivity issues resulting from the huge deficit in infrastructure. According to him, this underscores the need for urgent economic diversification anchored on improved productivity across sectors and structural reforms. Yusuf said the former regime came on board with an exceptionally high goodwill and with very high expectations from the citizens, but the expectations weakened soon after as the regime was up to a slow start, from an economic management perspective. He noted that the key reforms, especially in respect of the petroleum industry and the infrastructure sectors were  slow in coming, noting that  the decline in oil price and the activities of the militants in the Niger Delta regrettably compounded the economic challenges of the country in the first two years of the regime, culminating in a recession in 2016. According to him, the pace of reforms in the oil and gas sector remained painfully slow over the past four years. “The Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) was stalled, impeding the progress of the sector.  In the upstream segment, contracting processes under the joint venture partnership took between 12 to 36 months.  This was a major problem for investors in the sector. This is one reason that no new investors are coming into the sector. “The downstream was equally plagued by the excessive regulation which made it difficult to unlock the huge potentials of the oil and gas sector.” He said that it is desirable to fully liberalise the sector so that investors can inject the needed private capital. He also noted that the forex policy was one of the major challenges faced by investors in the first two years of the administration, however  subsequent reforms in the forex market palliated these problems. He pointed out that “The forex regime is moving close to a market driven framework in line with the pointers in the ERGP.  The frequent injection of liquidity by the CBN moderated the volatility of the rates and improved forex liquidity. “The forex policy reviews, especially the creation of the investors and exporters windows, are impacting positively on forex inflows and boosting the fortunes of the stock market.  Although there is still some fine-tuning to be done, the forex regime is heading in the right direction.”