UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has reiterated its readiness to sustain partnership with Nasarawa State Government to realise set goals of the various sectors the fund is involved in. The Chief of UNICEF Kaduna Field Office, Dr Zachary Adams, made this known at a one-day Mid-Year Review and planning meeting for 2019, organised by Nasarawa State Government in conjunction with UNICEF. It was gathered with the support of the state government, UNICEF is currently Involved in the various sectors in the state: health, education, Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) and Communication for Development (C4D). Adams expressed satisfaction with the response of Nasarawa State Government so far in the sectors and called for sustained partnership. He said the partnership was geared toward ensuring that the goals for the various sectors were achieved and new goals set to continue the efforts at improving the lives of many Nasarawa citizens, especially women and children. He added that “I applaud the support put so far and will ensure that the Nasarawa State Government continues to partner us. I also hope that this one-day meeting will be productive and our deliberations are helpful to achieve the objectives that brought us here.” The field officer explained that the present partnership with Nasarawa State Government was scheduled to cover 2019-2020 “and the one-day meeting is aimed at brainstorming on goals achieved so far, as well as challenges faced in the various sectors. “We have agreed on a two-year work plan for 2019, 2020 and I want to urge stakeholders to put in their best to achieve best outcomes in these sectors. But we cannot make it if there is no good synergy across all sectors. I call on stakeholders in the various sectors to relate constantly.” Mr Emmanuel Alidzi, the Permanent Secretary, Nasarawa State Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning, applauded UNICEF for contributing positively to the welfare of the people of the state. He said “Nasarawa State is one of those fortunate states partnering UNICEF and we have seen the efforts of the fund, especially in the health sector, education and many more. I also hope this partnership is sustained and stepped up a little so we can move ahead.” Revealed that health, education, nutrition and media representatives among others attended the meeting, aimed at reviewing collaboration between the state government and the fund. (NAN)