A three-day 2019 African Security Leadership Summit initially schedulled to commence on Wednesday, June 19 has been postponed till further notice, the organisers – Global Initiative for Leadership Success (GILS) has said. At a press briefing in Abuja on Monday to announce postponement of the summit, the chairman of the Board of Trustees of GILS, General A.B. Mamman (rtd), said there was a need for adequate planning to accomodate more stakeholders and participants and as well give President Muhammadu Buhari enough time to prepare and attend the event. “However, you may want to agree with me that a conference of such nature with its peculiarities and direct attachment with the desire for improved security and peace especially in Nigeria by our belove leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, must hold at the pace Mr. President himself would have direct hold on the proceedings and its outcome,” Gen. Mamman said. He therefore assured that the summit will hold at the right time and will come up with workable solutions to the nagging insecurity challenges in the country, adding that it won’t be business as usual regarding the implementation of the summit’s resolutions. “As Nigerians, we cannot but be sensitive to the yearnings of our citizens for proactive expert response to challenges before us. Therefore, rather than choosing to be onlookers in the face of these pressing threats, we have resolved at GILS to be part of the solution,” he added. Earlier, at the initial briefing last week Monday, Mamman said the summit was expected to bring security agencies in Nigeria and some African countries together for brainstorming sessions on the spate on insecurity and it will be declared open by President Buhari. It will be attended by other dignitaries including a former Head of State General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), security chiefs, diplomats and security attaches from across Africa. He said participants and resource persons have been carefully drawn from the military and academic circles, and they will engage the conference on fresh innovations in inter-agency synergy and effective security leadership suitable for combating the changing security challenges in Africa. “As you are all aware, the task of securing nations around the world becomes daunting everyday. This is due to perculiarities of challenges with which each nation is confronted and dynamics of handling such warfare in response to development, social and economic needs especially in Africa. “The continued demand for more inclusive, robust, innovative and proactive security measures towards meeting the challenges and threats posed by both symmetric and asymmetric warfares remain grounds for which our Armed Forces must be commended and similarly encouraged to embrace further collaboration for guaranteeing a safer Africa,” Gen. Mamman said. Mamman, who is also the traditional ruler of Nyaba Chiefdom (Etsu Nyaba) in Niger State, added that the security summit was informed by GILS’ concern about the need to salute the doggedness of the Nigerian Armed Forces and all other security and paramilitary agencies for their commitment in securing the nation under the leadership of President Buhari. The summit’s grand finale will be a Gala Night where security chiefs will be honoured with awards for their invaluable contribution to national security. “There is no effort too much and no sacrifice too great, including motivating the front players in our security environment towards engendering new friendship, fresh ideas, renewed patriotic preparedness and alertness for the sake of our continued unity, peace and love among all the Nigerian and African people so that our continent can be safer and become a big home for us and generations coming after us,” he noted. 