Research has been identified as one of the key drivers for the industrialization of a nation. Statistics has shown that most developed and industrialized nations invest heavily on research and development to develop and drive different sectors of their economies. Experts have said at various fora that the key to the rapid development and industrialisation of the developing Nigerian economy is to invest in research, pointing out that it has the potentials to turn the nation from a highly consuming to a highly productive one. At the commissioning of the administrative block of the Sheda Science and Technology Complex (SHESTCO), the former Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu contended that investing in research and development has the ability to boost the nation’s productivity, diversify the economy and create jobs. He said the nation was making modest progress in research and development activities, underscoring, however, the need for collaborative efforts between research institutes and the private sector to move research findings from the shelf into the hands of the people. According to him, the ministry and its 17 agencies will only concentrate on research and allow private investors to take over the commercialisation of the results. “We cannot be doing the research and also at the same time be dealing with commercialisation; it will be very difficult. “So, we call on organised private sector to come in and take interest in the numerous research findings and various important research findings that are going on in our research institutes all over the country. “This is because we are now targeting our research to solve our major national problems. The essence of research and innovation should be to improve the standard of living of our people,” he said. Speaking on the importance of research institutes like SHESTCO, Onu said the technology complex was a centre of excellence and one of the foremost research institutes and not just under the supervision of the ministry but the nation. He said the institute has a work plan research going in critical areas like applied physics, applied mathematics, chemistry, biotechnology, geometric engineering and stimulations, bringing ideas together for the good of our nation, adding the nation relied on SHESTCO as the agency of the ministry to help and assist to converge these environment resources that could affect the needs of our nation. He said the present administration was looking at all the sectors of the economy to make sure that we don’t import things we need. The director-general of SHESTCO, Prof. Sunday Thomas, said the complex was established to enable institutions and individuals to undertake a wide range of research and development works in a comprehensive and organised manner, adding the complex would house facilities whereby there would be concentration of sophisticated and modern equipment for research and development involving the highest level of technology in one location. “This is to avoid unnecessary wide diffusion with attendant cost effectiveness, thus ensuring sustainability and intensity of use of resources. In other words, the complex is modelled as a science and technology village with facilities for high technology research and supporting structure of power, water supply as well as housing other social/recreational facilities. “These facilities are for use by researchers from the academia – tertiary educational/ research institution to conduct research and development activities for applications in the area of agriculture, healthcare delivery and industry,’’ he said. Thomas said the complex had been able to establish and provide facilities for research and development over the years, adding it comprised Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering Advanced Research Centre, Chemistry Advanced Research Centre, Physics Advanced Research Centre and Nuclear Technology Centre. “It will also have an applied mathematics and simulation advanced research centre, which is being currently developed,” he added.