A civil society organization, the Social Development Integrated Centre (Social Action) has questioned the identity of the 21 companies that were awarded contracts by the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) for the clean-up of the polluted Ogoni environment in Rivers State. To this end, the group has written to the HYPREP Coordinator, Dr. Mavin Dekil, requesting to see the list of the contractors, with their lots, job types and specifications. The letter, written in line with the provisions of the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act, and dated June 10, 2019, also requested for details on the emergency measures, including livelihood projects so far done by HYPREP towards the Ogoni clean-up in line with the 2011 UNEP Report. The letter, which was signed by the Social Action’s Head, National Advocacy Centre, Vivian Belonwu-Okafor, reads in part: “Permit us therefore Sir, to please request, in line with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act of 2001, that you kindly avail us with the following information on and around the clean-up/ remediation processes in Ogoni; “Ogoni Clean-up implementation framework (timetable) showing activities’ schedule (inception to date, and in-view). List of the 21 companies so far awarded the Ogoni clean-up contract jobs, indicating their lots, job types, specifications, etc. “Details on the emergency measures (including the livelihood projects) so far done towards the clean-up, so far provided by HYPREP in line with the 2001 UNEP Report. “The requested information would provide us better clarity and insight into the activities of your body and strengthen is further as a CSO (Civil Society Organization) working with communities towards both the desired outcomes of your work (clean-up exercise) and the well-being of communities and it’s inhabitants.” Speaking with newsmen yesterday in Port Harcourt, Belonwu-Okafor, said the group would go to Court if HYPREP does not respond to it’s requests within the stipulated time. She said while the government’s intention in establishing HYPREP could be noble, a number of the steps and activities around the report implementation have not helped shoring up citizens’ confidence in the process.  