To say that government health institutions are overwhelmed and that their facilities are overstretched would be an understatement, as patients seeking healthcare services in Edo State and environs in recent times are forced to ask if public hospitals are houses of health or death traps. Patrick Ochoga writes As expected,  people who check into hospitals face risks. While expecting to get better, some actually end up getting worse. There are so many unfortunate horror stories about hospital risks, dangers of medical complications, and perhaps worse of all, human errors which cannot be ruled out. It is therefore not surprising that the typical health care provider ( public hospitals), as  far as Edo state and most general Teaching hospitals nationwide are concerned, have lost the confidence of patients. This is because, a visit to any of the government facilities in the state will convince you that at the primary level of care, nothing works. At the secondary level, activity is at best sub-optimal. There is shortage of everything from medical staff, drugs and beds, to critical equipment and funds. The working definition of a hospital as recommended by the World Health Organisation, WHO is: ‘A residential establishment which provides short-term and long-term medical care consisting of observational, diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitative services for persons suffering or suspected to be suffering from a disease or injury.’ Today, service delivery at the average public health centre in Edo state is fraught with ill-motivated staff, poor time management, strikes, and decaying or decayed equipment and other inadequacies. At these hospitals, the average patient is confronted by endless waiting, bad staff attitude, and indistinct or unmarked service points. Lately, the sick, who have been visiting General Hospitals and Health Centres in Edo, in search of one remedy or the other, have been narrating various experiences of woe, pain and anguish. Today’s outlook of  Edo general hospitals is grim. The hospital is overcrowded, short staffed, abundant with collapsed or collapsing infrastructure, meagre funds to provide for medicines and health supplies and so on. Things are so bad that common medical consumables such as syringes and cotton wool are often purchased by the patient, while in extreme cases, sensitive surgical equipment are llegedly reused on different patients without proper sterilisation allowing transmission and spread of potentially deadly viral and bacterial infections among unsuspecting patients. In December 2018, Lawarence Osagie, a 27 year old driver who was involved in a fatal accident were four passengers were said to have died on the spot, was rushed to the accident and emergency unit of the University of Benin-Teaching Hospital. While Osagie , the only survivor of the ghastly accident was  groaning and wailing following piercing pains from  injuries he sustained, the innocent victim was left at the mercy of medical personnel who were not even  on ground to attend to him. Forty minutes  without attention , Osagie , who may have survived  if  he was attended to gave up the ghost. Interestingly, barely 15minutes, after he gave up the ghost , some  medical personnel appeared from the blues and wheeled his remains to the mortuary. Little wonder , the rich in the society who can afford medical treatment abroad, do not hesitate to embark on what many condemn and describe as medical tourism to avoid negative ordeals. There is no gain saying that most of the death cases in some of our public health sectors cannot be far from gross negligence, obsolete equipment, unruly behaviour among some nurses and doctors, unethical practices by the operators of these hospitals. Another incident which occurred recently at the University of Benin Teaching  Hospital , (UBTH), Edo state, has further  brought to the fore, the sorry state of public hospitals in Nigeria. Edo based legal practitioner , Barrister Douglas Ogbankpa, jolted by the near death of a patient took to his facebook page to draw the attention of  the public to the rot at the hospital , which he says, goes beyond the well nurtured greenery and edifice that greets first time visitors. The story as narrated also exposes the  poor medical services of the hospital which prides itself as one of the best teaching hospitals and research centre in the zone. According to Ogbankpa, a patient, Mr Citizen Christopher Ibeh, was admitted into the Male Ward 2B,  of the hospital, in early April, 2019. He suffered from prostate enlargement. His condition was said to have worsened after being traumatised as a result of the haughty behaviour and incompetence of medical personnel at the hospital. Ibeh was said to have walked into the hospital by himself unaided, but by the time he left the teaching hospital in frustratition , his condition had degenerated. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered the result of a laboratory test conducted on him on April 8, 2019 by the hospital, was released a month after, a situation , which further endangered his life. Angered by the alleged negligence, barrister Ogbankpa,  threatened to institute a legal action against the authorities of the hospital should Ibeh die. “This is a notice to the authorities of UBTH, that if anything happens to Citizen Ibeh, they should be ready for a long drawn legal and regulatory battle that will alter the firmament of Public Hospitals in Nigeria. The UBTH itself looks like a white elephant project . “A Federal Government Hospital that is even more expensive than Private hospitals. Despite the Hundreds of Millions of naira, allocated to it, no credible  work has been done or personnel development undertaken” “Citizen Ibeh and his family have spent huge sums of money ,which was paid in cash ,despite the well-known financial  protocol of Treasury Single Account for Public Institutions in Nigeria, as provided for  by an act of the national assembly and instructed by the federal Executive Council, still his health plummets and there is no value for same.” He threatened that ,“The sooner the federal government look into the rot in the hospital ,the better for its citizens . As it stands , nurses and doctors  just count the dead ,ironically sometimes with  smiles. What a tragedy, it makes one wonder, whether UBTH is a Health Centre or a Death Centre”. It was later gathered that Ibeh’s relatives had to relocate him to a private hospital having spent huge sums of money at the teaching hospital without tangible result. When accosted,  another caller at the hospital, Paul Eboigbe, who corroborated Ibeh’s experience vowed not to patronise the facility again. “My brother fell sick at 8:40pm. In fact,  I was called that my brother was seriously ill in school,  University of Benin.  I rushed down,  carried him on my back and passed through the back gate of UBTH straight to the Emergency Ward. He threw up and even bathed me with vomit. Surprisingly, as I got to the front of the emergency unit door , a doctor came out and  guess what ? he asked me in a very harsh tone;  “who are you and what are you here for? “I just went inside, from the nurses to the doctor on call, they pretended not to have seen my brother’s plight. In fact,  If I had a gun, I would have ended their lives. The only person that genuinely cared was the cleaner.  I lost him anyway,  this happened in 2015, and it’s just one out of many terrible experiences I have had at UBTH.” Lucky Osagie , who joined in the conversation on the viral post urged Ogbankpa to take up the case against the management of the hospital for alleged negligence and gross incompetence. His advise; “Even if Citizen Ibeh survives , please take up the case against UBTH for gross incompetence and totally dysfunctional medical practice where nurses and doctors do whatever they wish at the detriment of innocent patients. Infact UBTH is the worst place to take the sick . “I had a case with my family member . This death trap of a hospital almost got her killed if not for the careful presence of another of my family member who they insisted should leave the ward but stubbornly refused. “They almost administered an injection meant  for someone else to the person I took to the hospital. UBTH is in shambles. It’s a death trap where one pays heavily b and is later killed. Their end product does not  match the care given. “Please let’s save so many people dying there for negligence. For the few days I spent there with my patient, I saw people dying there like rats. Some even died without the nurses knowledge  because they hardly check on patients. It is a death centre.” While Dominic Gilbert, on his part said , UBTH is not alone in this mess and urged the government to beam its search light on Stella Obasanjo hospital and Central hospital all situated in Benin. “If UBTH is like this, then central hospital and Stella Obasanjo should be brought down with bulldozer. The few days my mum spent in central hospital, I couldn’t but notice that with every passing day, cries from patients’ relatives were heard within the hospital premises. “During this period,  at least, one or two persons were wheeled to the mortuary. No consultant at work, my mum who was suffering from CHF was left to very young and inexperienced doctors and apprentice house officers. At some point, my mum was even abandoned because there was no bed space”. Perturbed by these tales, LEADERSHIP Sunday visited the management of the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. However, at a recent media parley, Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Prof. Darlington Obaseki debunked the allegations, especially that of the outrageous death toll in one of the nation’s foremost health institutions established in 1973. He said, “we hold this foremost hospital and what it stands for  in high esteem .This hospital was established by a two  time former governor of the -Western region and later Bendel state, Gen Samuel Ogbemudia (rtd) and other founding fathers.” According to him, “The only nightmare we are faced with  is that of these patients who in most cases give up the ghost , being referred to us half dead. Sometimes, even family members bring them after trying several other options , yet expect us to perform miracles which of course , you know is not possible.” The Professor of Morbid Anatomy  appealed to doctors and wards to ensure they refer patients early to the hospital for necessary medical treatment. He added that the UBTH remains the foremost institution reputed for training of high and middle manpower as well as pioneer paramedics and other personnel who attend to presently 510 patients in various wards and over 850 bed space. He explained further that the hospital lying on over 150 acres of land has grown to be the second best and highly functional with specialised services in Special Care Baby Unit, Oncology Special Care and Renal Dialysis, Invitro-Fertilisation treatment and Stem Cell plant across the country. Speaking also on the public outcry about poor services from the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) and the quality of drugs offered to patients, the CMD of the UBTH pointed out that staff of the establishment are over worked  with doctors, , clinical staff and 700 nurses taking care of over 5, 000 patients even as the number of enrollees have risen from 10, 000 to 75, 000. According to him, about 2, 400 patients are treated on daily basis at the hospital while generic drugs are usually given as against branded ones which are expensive, stressing that both the management and medical personnel are bleeding in NHIS services. While bemoaning the challenge of financial resources and dearth of essential equipment  such as MRI and other core facilities to boost standards, he assured that with a recent meeting with the zonal director of the NHIS, services are bound to improve tremendously He said, in keeping with the vision and mission of the founding fathers , he therefore called on well- meaning Nigerians and stakeholders to contribute to the growth of the hospital through its endowment fund. 