The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), has threatened to close down Karu Abattoir, in Abuja Municipal area Council (AMAC), over drug peddling, prostitution and other criminalities. Addressing management and other workers of the abattoir, during an unscheduled visit to the facility at the weekend, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) permanent secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, , warned that the administration may be forced to take the extreme measure of shutting down the facility if such illegalities were not stopped. Ohaa stated that the FCTA was disturbed by reports about the brazen sale of illegal drugs and prostitution in the abattoir, just as he urged the managers of the abattoir to rid it of all forms of criminalities in order to avoid severe consequences. While advising management of the abattoir to work very closely with security agencies by reporting those involved in the criminalities around the abattoir, the permanent secretary also encouraged the butchers and other workers in the area to carry out their businesses peacefully in accordance with the law. He also assured them that the administration would put in place measures to eradicate the evils and illegalities being witnessed in all abattoirs in the territory. “The essence of coming here is to make sure we discuss with you and for you to help us eradicate those who are selling illegal drugs and those who are encouraging prostitution, as well as those who are also encouraging other vices. If you don’t want to do that and we get disturbing information about these practices here, we are going to close down this place. We also think that what is happening here is also happening in other abattoirs in the FCT. We are not going to take it kindly with anybody who is not willing to do business as the law prescribes.” Responding, the chairman, Karu Abattoir Butchers Association, Magaji Tata, disclosed that attempts are being made to sanitise the facility, just as he alleged that those peddling drugs in the abattoir come from nearby Jikwoyi and Mararaba in Nasarawa State, adding that security officials have been notified about their activities. Tata also disclosed that the managers of the abattoir were working assiduously to ensure proper hygiene in the slaughterhouse and the surrounding area.