State governors yesterday appraised the various special intervention programmes of President Muhammadu Buhari and concluded that their multiplier effects on the economy and wellbeing of the people are there for all to see. The governors said that so far the states have received bailouts and other financial assistance amounting to N2 trillion from the president. They listed the major beneficiaries of Buhari’s gestures as workers, retirees and pensioners, whose backlog of salaries, gratuities and stipends have been cleared from the money. This revelation came from the chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum and governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, after the members met with Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja Bagudu said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors discussed issues ranging from the election of the 9th National Assembly principal officers, bailouts, security to agriculture with Buhari. He said that the governors also used the opportunity to thank the Nigerian leader for all he has been doing and the successes recorded in security, economy and anti-corruption campaign, which were the areas, he and by extension the APC, campaigned for re-lection early this year. The governor said: “We are quite happy with his support for states where close to N2 trillion was given to states in form of restructuring of loans, refunds on federal roads, refund for Paris Club, which has stimulated economic activities in the states, the payment of salaries, pensions, gratuities and overall investment in infrastructure.” Bagudu said that they congratulated Buhari on the emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker House of Representatives. He said that “this morning Mr. President graciously granted audience to Progressive Governors’ Forum. We came to congratulate him on the election of National Assembly principal officers and thanked him for the confidence he reposed on the forum’s members who participated actively in all the processes that led to the emergence of Senator Ahmad Lawan as Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege as Deputy Senate President, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker, Hon. Ahmed Wase as Deputy Speaker.” The governor added that they were also appreciative of increased investment in agriculture which was due to Buhari’s conscious decision to support agriculture as a way out of the current economic challenges and stimulate growth. He added that the APC governors offered to work with Mr President continuously to ensure that “we increase economic performance, the security of our country and social cohesion. “We thank Mr President for celebrating the Democracy Day consistent with the promise he has made which is a major element reflective of his democratic ideals in ensuring that an issue which is so important to many Nigerians has been finally addressed in a way that we are all happy,” Bagudu said. He further said that the governors would push for intensive legislation and cooperation in the areas of investments and security between the states and the federal government. The governors at the meeting were Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Babagana Zulum (Borno), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Mai-Mala Buni (Yobe), Abdulrahman Abdulrazq (Kwara), and Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa). Others were Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, Niger State’s Abubakar Bello, Mannir Yakubu, the deputy governor of Katsina State, and Hadiza Balaraba, the deputy governor of Kaduna State.  FG saves N273.8bn from IPPIS implementation Meanwhile, the Buhari administration has save the sum of N273.809billion from the implementation of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (PPIS) in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The money was saved between 2017 and 2018 alone, the accountant-general of the federation, Ahmed Idris, said. He expressed delight that the savings which would have been lost had been recovered for the federal government to deploy for other uses and gave the credit to the faithful implementation of the programme aimed at promoting probity, transparency and accountability in government expenditure. Idris said that “as at today the total MDAs on IPPIS platform is 561 with a total staff count of over 755,422.” Prior to 2015, the total number of MDAs on IPPIS was 288 with a staff of 235,858. At a meeting with vice chancellors, registrars and bursars of federal universities in Abuja yesterday, Idris disclosed that in total compliance with the presidential directive for enrolment of all MDAs drawing their personnel cost form the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) into the IPPIS platform, the Nigeria Police and the para-military agencies are already been paid on IPPIS platform. “The enrolment of the Nigerian military – Army, Navy and Air Force – have just been concluded and a trial payroll is ongoing. In a similar vein, the enrolment of federal polytechnics is scheduled for early July, 2019,” he said. Idris remarked that there is always reduction in wage bill whenever a new agency is brought on board the platform. The meeting was organised for participants to come up with the best practical possible means to comply with the president’s directive for actualisation of above laudable goals of IPPIS policy. Management and staff unions of the tertiary institutions had drew exception to the programme, citing peculiar factors why wages of university staff should not be registered in on the platform. The argument of ASUU, for instance, was that the IPPIS programme did not accommodate the peculiarities of the job of university lecturers, a problem the meeting sought to address. The universities are sceptical about the capacity and the capability of IPPIS to accommodate their peculiarities as well as the fear of losing their autonomy. Idris assured the lecturers that IPPIS does not only have the capacity to accommodate two million federal employees, its payroll applications are flexible enough to take care of peculiarities such as sabbatical, visitation, honorarium and earned allowances. He said that the centralised payroll would be prepared by individual universities but co-ordinated by IPPIS while the total management of the human resources rest squarely with the universities, adding that it would not in any way compromised the autonomy of the universities. The AGF, therefore, called for their co-operation to achieve a seamless enrolment that would be a win-win game for both the universities and the government. The chairman, Committee of Vice Chancellors, who is also current vice chancellor of Bayero University Kano, Prof. Muhammad Yahuza Bello, expressed delight on Idris promise to consider the peculiar nature of the jobs of university lecturers before the implementation of the programme. “The promise of the AGF is quite consoling,” he said, and urged the government to take into account the views and concerns that would be brought up from the interactions for easy implementation of the programme in the universities. Bello assured the government of the readiness of the universities and their staff unions to implement the initiative.