Living in these days of global biodiversity decline, we may not readily realise that a big part of the foundation of the problem can be located in an examination of how we relate to one another. When we look at our environment and other beings as elements for exploitation and transformation for economic gains, we pursue the fiction of endless exploitation and accumulation and expand the quantum of harm visited on the ecological web of life. As the alarm bells continue to sound, especially with regards to climate change and the rapid extinction of species, our responses do not appear to be pointed at restoring our broken relationship with Mother Earth and with each other, but at further exacerbating same in what may be termed the Darwinian struggle for the survival of the fittest. And, we operate from the premise that humans are the fittest and would survive even if most systems and natural cycles are broken and destroyed. Sadly, that would not be the case, because human health and well-being is directly correlated to environmental degradation. Climate change and increase in extreme weather events is exacerbating the spread of malaria and other vector borne diseases. They are also destroying farms and our capacity to feed ourselves. An integrated approach to environment and human rights will help us seek real solutions to the problems rather than bandages that at best, merely postpone the day of disaster. Such obnoxious bandages include propagating genetically engineered mosquitoes as solution to malaria disease rather than providing sanitation and social infrastructure. It also includes unregulated geoengineering in place of halting pollution at source and shifting from polluting activities. The reality of ongoing environmental degradation and related ecosystems decline spell disaster for majority of the world today. With plastics harming marine ecosystems, oil and industrial pollution throwing up a plethora of environmental problems, we are living in the proverbial fools’ paradise if we think that we have an alternate planet to migrate to after thrashing planet Earth. Just think of the disastrous consequences we pretend to not see: water stress, piles of waste of various descriptions, fisheries depletion, deforestation and the rise of junk and out-rightly toxic foods. When shall we wake up to the truth that human rights can best be enjoyed when we respect the dignity of all peoples and respect the rights of Mother Earth? The fact that pollution alone accounts for over two million deaths annually and is implicated in billions of cases of diseases, should rouse us from slumber. Every action we take that disrupts the natural cycles of Mother Earth directly threatens our capacity to thrive and to survive. This is clearer in contexts where humans depend directly on ecosystems for livelihoods. We see the classic case of people happily polluting upstream while others depending on the same waters downstream happily drink the contaminants without knowing that their life support has been turned into poison by their relatives upstream. Muddying and poisoning water bodies may make life easy for corporations and individuals that secure pristine resources for themselves, but the bubbles will eventually burst, because the one per cent continuously depend on the exploitation of the labour and sweat of the 99 per cent to secure their privileges. The minimum we can demand at this time is for the global community to take a frontal integration and consideration of human rights in environmental actions. Our multilateral systems require critical reexaminations in order to integrate dimensions of these rights into all international covenants and to establish mechanisms for reinforcing them. We have to more clearly, see climate change as a human rights issue and as a justice issue that require fundamental changes in our lifestyles especially with regard to our production and consumption systems. It is not by chance that the most vulnerable among us are the ones most assaulted by the fallout of our damaged relationship with nature. Negative impacts on the vulnerable remains a recipe for disaster. Without doubt, environmental degradation is a human rights abuse and perpetrators should be held to account. To keep a blind eye to the negative acts is simply to force impacted communities and peoples to bear the environmental cost and thus, subsidize the crimes of the polluters. This is why ecological democracy, as enunciated by thinkers including Vandana Shiva, Ruth Manorama and others, must be understood, popularised and enforced. Some of us have termed the same concept as ‘re-source democracy,’ demanding that communities and peoples must hold the right to determine what activities may be carried out in their environments on the premise that they see what we term natural resources as gifts of nature; have knowledge of the intricate relationships in the biodiversity of their territories, their usefulness and capacities to holistically support life. Many brothers and sisters have placed their lives on the line, defending the gifts of nature. The attack and killing of environmental defenders is a horrendous manifestation that is on the rise and must be halted. These valiant men and women have stood against agents of deforestation, pollution and land grabs and their labour of love must not be in vain. Here we think of great humans such as Chico Mendes, Ken Saro-Wiwa, Berta Caceres and many others. They fought to protect the environment, for the rights of the people to be consulted and for the rights of the people to live in dignity. Although they had their lives cut short, they remain present in the struggles.   