The executive director, Centre for Pension Rights Advocacy, Barrister Ivor Takor, has charged Nigerian workers to demand for their pension rights from their respective employers. Takor, while speaking on a radio programme in Lagos, stated that the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014 adequately provides basic rights workers as well as contributors should enjoy under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). He noted that the Act confers on workers certain legal rights, such as the right to pension, among others, stresssing that section 3 of the Act, established a Contributory Pension Scheme for all employees of public services of the Federation, the Federal Capital Territory, States, local government and the Private Sector. Takor maintained that the worker has a right to the employer’s contribution towards his/her pension,stating that Section 4(1) of the Act provides that the rate of contribution to the Scheme shall be a minimum of ten per cent of monthly total emolument of the employee by the the employer, while the employee shall contribute a minimum of eight per cent. “The next right is the right to life insurance. Section 4(5) provides that in addition to the rates of contributions, every employer shall maintain a Group Life Insurance Policy in Favour of each employee for a minimum of three times the annual total emolument of the employee and that premium shall be paid not later than the date of commencement of the cover. For the enforcement of this right, the Act in Section 4(6) provides that where the employer failed, refused or omitted to make payment as and when due, the employer shall make arrangement to effect the payment of claims arising from the death of any staff in its employment during such period,” he said. The scheme, he said, gives the right to contributions forming part of tax deductible expenses in computation of tax payment as well as retirement benefits being exempted from taxation. Section 10 of the Act, according to him, provides that notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, contributions to the Scheme under the Act shall form part of tax deductible expenses in the computation of tax payable by an employer and employee under the relevant Income Tax Law. He said, all interests, dividends, profits, investment and other income accruable to pension funds and assets under the Act, as well as any amount payable as a retirement benefit under this Act shall not be taxable. He posited that the Act confers on workers certain legal rights, such as the right to pension among others. He also said section 3 of the Act, established a Contributory Pension Scheme for all employees of public services of the Federation, the Federal Capital Territory, States, local government and the Private Sector. According to him, one of the new rights granted the worker after the commencement of the Contributory Pension Scheme is the right to apply a percentage of the pension assets in the RSA for residential mortgage, adding that, Section 89(2) of the Act provides that a Pension Fund Administrator may subject to guidelines issued by the Commission, apply a percentage of the pension assets in the retirement savings account towards the payment of equity contribution for payment of residential mortgage by a holder of Retirement Savings Account.