In recognition of the 2019 World Environment Day, the  business intelligence unit of  The Outsource Company completed a survey to examine the depth of involvement Nigerians have in environmental protection. Using telephone interviews of a small sample size, the survey provided valuable insight into the mindset of an average person towards actions relating to reduction of pollution hazards. World Environment Day 2019 is poised to urge governments, industry, communities, and individuals to come together to explore renewable energy and green technologies, and improve air quality in cities and regions across the world. World Environment Day (WED) was established in 1972 but first held in 1974, which shows that concern about the environment goes back several decades at least. 143 countries take part in World Environment Day, and the day focuses on environmental concerns ranging from pollution to global warming and sustainable food production to protection of wildlife. Every year there is a new main focus for WED. This year the focus is ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’ in recognition of this , The Outsource Company conducted this survey as part of its corporate social responsibility. The survey, which commenced on 25TH May 2019 revealed that despite rising world wide concerns, many Nigerians have other more pressing concerns than saving the planet from plastic pollution. The following categories were sampled during the survey to measure people’s knowledge about  environmental pollution; Pollution Hazard,Recycling, Sources of information and Awareness. The findings are as follows; POLLUTION HAZARD   While 66.7% people agree that environmental pollution is hazardous, about, 12.8% people disagreed. 20.50% were indifferent. Considering the worldwide campaign to end plastic use, the number of indifferent Nigerians is significantly high. RECYCLING People’s understanding about recycling was also tested to know how many Nigerians understand the importance of recycling and actually did recycle their plastic waste.  16.20% of the people said they always recycle, 16.20% people said they can’t remember when they last get involved in recycling. While 27.10% of the people said they do not believe in recycling. 40.50% said they recycle once in a while. This is another troubling trend that shows that nearly 60% of Nigerians do not see the point in recycling. SOURCES OF INFORMATION Under this category we tested the sources of information available to people in order to gain knowledge about  the effect of environmental pollution.  15.40% of respondents got information through the internet. 5.10% indicated that they get informed through government agencies. 2.60% of the respondents said the get informed through the reading of newspaper. 33.30% said through other means of communication. 19.20% said through the radio. While 24.40% said through the use of television. KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THE TOPIC The depth of knowledge people  had on the importance of the environmental pollution awareness and its benefits was also examined.  32.90% people are aware of the topic and its importance to human environment. 21.40% of the people said they are not aware and to them live is normal. While 30% of the people are not even interested in the discussion. 15.70% are indifferent in their response, raising the number to a whopping 70% of respondents who are unlikely to act on reducing pollution. Our findings reveal that it is important for stakeholders in environmental protection world wide to resist the urge to assume plastic pollution is a “worldwide” concern. Deducing from this limited survey, Nigeria has a long way to go in taking actionable steps to join the worldwide match to end plastic pollution. For Business Intelligence Reports based on primary data visit outsource.africa