As the 8th National Assembly (NASS) wound down yesterday, the race for the new leadership of the Senate is now between Senators Ahmed Lawan and Ali Ndume. This followed the exit of the third front runner, Senator Danjuma Goje, from the contest after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Expectations that Senator Ndume who is not favoured for the office by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would toe the same line with Goje were dashed when he told journalists in Abuja yesterday that he would not dump his ambition. Ndume, a former Senate leader said that there was no going back in his resolve to contest for the Senate presidency on the floor of the Upper House on Tuesday, June 11, 2019 when the National Assembly would be inaugurated. He also said that there was no reason for him to visit President Buhari at the State House in order to step down for Senator Lawan. The lawmaker dismissed a social media report that he was invited to the Presidential Villa by Buhari who ordered him to dump his aspiration to be the next Senate president. Ndume said: “Nobody has invited me to the villa. There won’t be cause for it. My quest to contest the Senate president election Insha Allah on Tuesday next week stands.” Senator Goje’s withdrawal from the Senate presidency race was announced by the Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai and Lawan at Aso Rock after the parley with Buhari. Goje, who confirmed that he had bowed out from the election, said that the decision was based on loyalty and in the interest of the unity of the APC. He added that it was also in order to assist President Buhari in his policies. He also threw his weight behind the candidacy of Senator Lawan. The lawmaker and former governor of Gombe State said: “Before I proceed I want to use this opportunity to thank my teeming associates, supporters and admirers across the country, some have been calling me to declare for the Senate presidency. “The calls have come from across the country, I listened to them and thank the people so much but I want to say that as an elder statesman that has been in this game for a long time and my age, I should be able to appreciate leadership coming from our elders. “So, in spite of all these calls and my support base, I have decided in deference to the loyalty of our party and in the interest of the unity of our party, the APC and the development of our country and in order to assist President Muhammadu Buhari in his policies, I have decided by not declaring for the seat of the Senate president. Instead I am supporting the position of the party thereby endorsing the candidature of Ahmed Lawan,” he said. When asked if he was compelled to step down by the presidency in view of the fact that the National Assembly is supposed to be an independent body, Goje said that there was nothing to that effect. He said: “I don’t think there is any imposition, I am not compelled to step down but as a reasonable person and at my age, I think I have the capacity to think well and to respect my elders and my party. “I have been in party politics since the Second Republic and I have been independent; I have been winning my elections since them – from local government to the state House of Assembly, to the National Assembly and governorship and also a minister – to say that I would be frightened to support somebody is impossible. I am supporting him based on my conviction that I am doing the right thing for our country and our president,” he added. In his response, Lawan thanked Goje for endorsing him, saying that his action would bring unity to the APC. Lawan said: “Let me thank Mr. President our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari for giving us the leadership that we need at this point. We have just come out of a closed door meeting as it were and mine is to thank Governor el-Rufai of Kaduna State for making it possible for us to achieve what we are having today. “For me, this is a great day and very important moment for the race; my endorsement by Senator Goje is going to bring so much unity to the APC and the entire Senate. I believe that is the way to go, we want to go there united from all sides, to start our activities well is very important at this time. We need a Senate that is focused for optimum performance “I believe that our colleagues in the ninth Senate will be happy to hear that this has been achieved. I want to also thank Senator Goje, he is a very experienced politician and has been in this business much longer than some of us. “I respect him because when there was clamour for him to run; he never came out publicly to declare. But the position he has taken to respect the wishes of the party is the best decision any politician could take and there is nothing better to have a family that is very united and solid. So I thank him for that,” Lawan said.  APC Hails Goje Over Withdrawal From Race In a swift reaction to Goje’s decision, the APC commended him and President Buhari for the fatherly role he played in ensuring compliance with the party’s directive. In a statement signed by the APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party dismissed the smear campaigns against Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and urged him to go ahead with his ambition. According Issa-Onilu, “Goje has demonstrated himself as a reliable, committed party leader, good role model and an elder statesman. We believe that Goje’s selfless actions typify APC’s progressive ideals and should be emulated by all party members to ensure unity, strength and supremacy of our great party. There is no doubt that the majority APC caucus is going into the incoming 9th National Assembly as a united house. “Ahead of the June 11 inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, we urge all APC federal lawmakers to rally round the candidatures of Senator Ahmad Lawan, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and all our candidates for the respective principal positions,” he said.  Executive, Legislature Feud May Linger, Saraki Warns In his valedictory speech yesterday, the immediate past Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki, who recounted his experiences as the chairman of the 8th National Assembly, warned that there would always be friction between the two arms of government if the presidency refuses to have engagements and consultations with the leadership of the National Assembly before he submits the yearly budget to the legislature. Saraki said that if the executive sees the failure of a few of its appointees to secure confirmation by the Senate as a disagreement, then the relationship would not improve. He said that even though the Red Chamber lost three senators, it was free of scandals. “It is also important that I make some comments about legislature-executive relations. My take is that if the executive sees the National Assembly’s work on the budget as interference despite the provision of the constitution, then there will continue to be problems between both arms of government. “If the presidency refuses to have engagements and consultations with the leadership of the National Assembly before the president submits the budget to the legislature, then there will continue to be friction. If the executive sees the failure of a few of its appointees to secure confirmation by the Senate as a disagreement, then the relationship will not improve,” Saraki asserted. He further warned that If the executive encourages its appointees who fail to secure Senate confirmation to remain in office, then there will continue to be disagreement. If the executive believes that the legislature is a rubber stamp without the right to question its actions, then it will be a subversion of the principles of separation of powers and checks and balances. “My advice is that both arms of government have a role to play in our quest for good governance and their leadership should work for co-operation and fruitful engagement. At this juncture, I must express my gratitude to the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu. History will be kind to you and providence will shine upon you. I am sure you never thought you would be deputy Senate president in an APC majority parliament, but it happened. Nobody made you deputy president of the Senate, the Almighty God willed it,” Saraki said, stressing that “power is transient.” He also commended Lawan and Ndume who served under him as Senate leader, adding that it was evident that among the two of them, one would be Senate president of the 9th Assembly. According to Saraki, “there is no way I can end this speech without recalling a certain injunction which goes thus: If we speak the truth, we will die; and if we lie, we will die, so we might as well tell the truth. I am, of course, paraphrasing the inimitable Dino Melaye whose flamboyance, catchy turns of phrase and songs meant that the 8th Senate was never in danger of becoming staid. “Dino and Senator Kabir Garba Marafa made sure that there was always just enough colour and exuberance to keep us chuckling now and then. They kept us from taking ourselves too seriously, and that too, had its place,” Saraki said. In his comment, Ekweremadu said that the Senate amendment into the Electoral Act where cases must be completed in 180 days helped in dispensing justice even in Zamfara State. “What has happened must be a lesson. History has a way of repeating itself. We must realise that loyalty lies in the hands of Nigerians. Unless we have peace, we can’t make progress. Unity will bring peace,” he said. Lawan said that he supported the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government when he was in the opposition and commended his colleagues for the support they gave the APC-led federal government. “We can make the legislators relevant and respected when lawmakers do their constitutional roles effectively from oversight to legislative activities and representation. We need to be united and focused irrespective of our political parties so that Nigerians would be better for it,” Lawan said. Ndume warned that compromising the independence of the legislature will be very dangerous and urged the lawmakers to do the needful to nurture democracy and the independent of the legislature.  I Spent 124 Days In Police Custody Senator Dino Melaye revealed his ordeal in the hand of the police between 2017 and 2018. Melaye, who represented Kogi West in the parliament, said that he spent 124 days in police custody. The lawmaker, who sang a hymnal song on the floor of the Senate, said that he campaigned for only four days to the 2019 election and still won. He said: “I was in police custody when the recall process failed woefully. I am here to thank God because in 2017, I was arrested eight times. In 2018, I was arrested 18 times and out of 365 days in 2018, I spent 124 in police custody. I campaigned only four days to the 2019 elections.” Melaye disclosed that last year alone he was arraigned in 12 different courts, adding that “many of those who orchestrated your (Saraki’s) removal failed. They are now commending you. Mr. President, it is your time to laugh. “I want to thank God Almighty, who is the supreme controller of the universe being alive and sitting here today. You will recall severally, Mr President, I addressed you as the irremovable president of the Nigerian Senate when cankerworms and caterpillars arose against thee, when the seat of power took you to Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), when the state petitioned you and took you to the courts and established a case of forgery against you. “Today, Mr. President, you are not just completing your term but you are going to have a glorious exit against the machinations of some demons. I congratulate you. And to my surprise, many of those who orchestrated your removal, downfall on this floor, called you their mentor. Mr. President, it is your time to laugh,” he said. The Senate minority leader, Biodun Olujimi said that the Upper achieved a lot with her as the first female minority leader. She said what they thought would be the difficult thing became the easiest thing in the world when they elected Saraki as the Senate president because, according to her, some people were meeting at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja for a different motive.  8th NASS, Most Persecuted In Nigeria’s History – Dogara Meanwhile, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, has declared that the 8th National Assembly holds the record as the “most persecuted and harassed parliament in the country’s history.” He, however, averred that the Assembly was a huge success with unprecedented records set in legislative business. During the valedictory session of the Lower House, Dogara expressed gratitude to the lawmakers for electing him speaker of the 8th Assembly and the cooperation his leadership enjoyed from them. He said: “This wonderful cooperation, no doubt, enabled us to have a very stable and peaceful 8th House of Representatives and to set records that have no parallels in our history of lawmaking as a nation. “Honourable colleagues, on your behalf, I make bold to say that the 8th House of Representatives, and the National Assembly as an institution, has been a huge success. This is without apology to whoever may hold a contrary opinion. The stubborn facts are out there for every commentator to see. “We took off amidst head winds and turbulence but on stabilising, we have witnessed book throwers and table climbers transform into solid leaders.  We have seen mace grabbers wrestled until they surrendered to the dictates of the rule of law, true friendship and brotherhood. We have witnessed the transformation of those who struggled to move mere motions to eloquent debaters and to crown it all, those who, at inception did not understand themselves, working together, in spite of whatever differences, for the national good. This is the spirit that defines us as legislators, the institution of the legislature; and I am happy we embraced it fully,” he said. Dogara stressed that “the 8th House holds the record as the most persecuted and harassed parliament, ever in Nigeria’s history. Some of our members bear the scars of reckless deployment of institutional prerogatives. We witnessed sieges and invasions by state operatives. Some members suffered witch-hunts, house arrests and false accusations. We are also witnesses to barrage of uncharitable criticisms and assessments bandied on daily basis in the media by hired mercenaries who masquerade as analysts.  Most of these analysts are ignorant of the fact that the parliament was not designed to be an altar of praise for the executive but a co-equal branch to serve as a check on executive power.”