One week after the Nigerian Financial Intelligent Unit (NFIU) guidelines on the management of local governments’ funds came into effect, the full implementation is yet take place in virtually all the councils in the country. The guidelines are designed to enhance the financial autonomy of the local governments and check the abuse of the joint state/LG account by state governors. Among others, the NFIU is to ensure that federal allocations are paid directly to the councils’ accounts and to ensure prudent spending of such monies with daily withdrawal restricted to N500,000. NFUI is the Nigerian arm of the Global Financial Intelligent Unit domiciled within the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend yesterday in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, the caretaker committee chairman of Hawul local government area, Mr. Daniel Musa Malang, said that the councils in the state had not started receiving monies directly from the Federation Account. Malang, however, added that they had been informed that payment from the Federation Account would commence from the end of June. From across the South Western states, no local government has also received allocation from the Federation Account. Consequently, there is no compliance with the guidelines. In Oyo and Ogun States, the new governors, Seyi Makinde and Dapo Abiodun respectively, have sent the elected council chairmen packing from office. But the Ogun State chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), who  doubles as chairman of Odeda local government area, Bola Lawal, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that although local governments in the state had paid salaries for May, they were yet to receive any money from the Federation Account based on the NFIU directives. Lawal applauded the federal government for the initiative, saying that “it would bring the desired development to the grassroots in Nigeria.” In Ekiti State, the councils are yet to receive their monthly allocations directly from the federation treasury. A coordinating director in one of the 16 councils in the state said that there was no process to that effect. The director said the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs was saddled with the responsibility of handling issues on council administration. He said: “As far as we are concerned, it is the Ministry of Local Government that is in charge of all matters that has to do with the council. We have never run foul of the law as a local government council. The only document received from the NFIU was the one that says no local government should withdraw beyond certain amount of money from its account.” A source close to the management of the council said that though they were aware of the move, “but there has not been any concrete action to effect it.” In Lagos State, no local government has received any direct allocation from the Federation Account since the guidelines were adopted. Many of the council chairmen contacted said they did not want to comment on the issue because it is a sensitive one, but those who volunteered information, said that they are yet to receive any direct allocation from the federal government. Because the stakes are high in Sokoto State, most council officials consciously declined responding to the issue, saying that only the caretaker committee chairmen could give authoritative information on it. LEADERSHIP Weekend, however, gathered that the councils were yet to receive their allocations directly from the federal government. Effort to get confirmation from the ALGON chairman, Aminu Ibrahim, who is also the caretaker committee chairman of Sokoto North council proved unsuccessful as his mobile phone line was not reachable. A source from the local government divulged that they are yet to enjoy direct allocation from federal purse. In Kebbi state, the story was no different as investigation that the councils were awaiting their new allocations from the government. They declined comments on whether they were complying with the N500,000 sealing on daily withdrawal. The chairman of Birnin Kebbi local government area who is the Kebbi State ALGON chairman ,Alhaji Suleiman Muhammad Kardi, said that until councils start receiving federal allocations directly, the joint account remains operational.