No fewer than 200 women from Ezza clan in Ebonyi State protested the gruesome murder of 3 indigenees of the community by rival cult groups in Ezza North and Ezza South Local Government Area of the state. The protesters mostly women between the ages of 50 to 70 years old marched round the major roads in Onueke in Ezza South chanting songs of sorry while others cried uncontrollable. The aged women who wore mournful mood carried palm fronds and disrupted both vehicular and human traffic along the major roads while the protest lasted for over 1hour. Some of the women who spoke to leadership described the killing as unfortunate and regrettable and called on the relevant authorities to ensure the arrest and immediate prosecution of the perpetrators of the dastardly act. One of the women, Mrs. Nwakaego Ujebe who expressed shock on the death of 3 sons of the community stated that the killing has turned their wives to untimely widow adding that if the situation is not urgently arrested, the women would be forced to take drastic action against anyone suspected to have been involved in the killings. According to her, “we cannot continue to fold our hands and watch our women turn to widows by miscreants who go about killing people without considering the damage and psychological trauma and agony their families would be thrown into”. “It is very clear to us that those in authority have failed in their responsibilities of securing the lives and properties of its citizens. This gruesome killings have been going on in our community for quite a long time now with more than 10 sons of the community killed, yet nothing has been done to arrest the situation”. “We are saddened with the state of killings in Ezza South and Ezza North. Youths now carry arms unchecked. People are now proud to call themselves cultist while those who do not belong are intimidated and harassed to join them. Our so-called leaders uses them during political period and because they don’t have any meaningful job doing, they use the arms procured during election to perpetrate evil in the community”. The women urged the State Governor, Chief David Umahi to without further delay publish the names of all the cult members in the state especially in Ezza South and Ezza North adding that the publication would expose them to ridicule. It would be recalled that, a 42 year old man and staff of Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital,  Ifeanyi Alegu popularly known as Don Bruno was shot dead on Sunday at Onueke the headquarters of  Ezza south local government area while eating. Alegu hails from Ezzama, Ezza South local government area. LEADERSHIP gathered that Mr. Alegu had gone to eat  at the popular Onueke Park not knowing that he was been trailed by some cult members. A source had reveal to Leadership that immediate he finished eating and was about leaving the eatry, the suspected killers appeared at the scene and shot him on the head as he died on the spot . Less than 24 hours after the death of Mr. Alegu, one Martins Igwe Nwagu of Ezza North local government said to be a relative of a former Senator, Paulinus Igwe Nwagu was reportedly also reportedly murdered also by men suspected to be cultists on Monday morning. In an interview with an anti-cultism Crusader in the state,  Mr. Morris Eguji also condemned the killings and called on major stakeholders in the area to fight the ugly trend. “If boys less than 25 years old will be killing older men in Ezza land because of cultism, then no Stakeholder is free again no matter your position once you ever joined cult in your school days. It’s Ifeanyi Alegu today and no one knows who may be the next victim. Let everyone rise now. I have been asking us to rise from day one. More will happen if nothing is done today”. “Yesterday it was Ifeanyi Alegu and today is Martin Igwe Nwagu. Who knows who may be the next victim if nothing is done today. We’re brothers in the land and our land abhors killing ourselves. Let’s shun cult”. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Loveth Odah was not disposed to speak to our correspondent.