A number of civil society organisations in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Health have carried out a public sensitisation rally on the  streets  of Abuja to commemorate World Tobacco Day which was usually marked on 31st May annually. The groups which includes Nigerian Tobacco Control Alliance (NTCA), Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN), Campaign For Tobacco Free Kids (CTFK), Cedars Foundation, University of Abuja Smoke-free Club, and the Nigeria Medical Association, among others  marched from the popular Berger roundabout in Abuja to the ever busy Wuse Market. Speaking at the occasion, the Deputy Executive Director, ERA, Oluwafemi Bode stated that the rally was part of activities to mark the 2019 World No Tobacco Day with the theme: “Tobacco and Lung Health”. He also said that they decided to embark on the sensitivization rally to create awareness among the populace in Abuja on the new law recently passed by the National Assembly which stipulates fines or jail terms for any one who violates the National Tobacco Control (NTC) Act. Various branded leaflets containing some information about the Tobacco Act were handed out to passers-by and most of the campaigners were carrying placards with different inscription such as “Tobacco is a threat to development”, “Tobacco kills” among others, all geared towards educating traders on the effect of tobacco and the Tobacco Regulations that were approved by the National Assembly on 28 May 2019. Speaking at the rally, Abraham Agbons of the Federal Ministry of Health explained that the sensitisation walk was planned immediately after the passage of the Tobacco regulations, to bring the message nearer to the grassroots and ensure they understand the text of the law and penalty for violators. Earlier at the occasion, the Programme Coordinator of the National Tobacco Control Alliance (NTCA), Oluseun Esan said that the benefits of the law include safer air to breathe and protection of non smokers from second-hand smoke which kills about 600,000 people annually. He pointed out that the approved Regulations would now make it possible for the Federal Ministry of Health and the relevant agencies of government to fully implement the NTC Act, which was signed into law by former president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan in 2015. Also speaking at the occasion,  the head, Media and Public Relations, Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN), Mr Philip Japkor said “As you know, the tobacco regulations has been passed last week  by the National Assembly. That’s good news. So at this stage,what must commence immediately is what we have keyed into which is the sensitivization, in order to create awareness for the public to know that smoking in public places is prohibited” “Regulations, which were approved by the Senate and the House of Representatives, addressed the licensing of tobacco products, duration of the license, and the sizes of pictographs and graphic health warnings on tobacco packs, among others”. “The pictographs and health warnings which will cover 50% of the display area of tobacco packs replaced the message,.“ he added. According to Mr Jakpor, “What we need now, is for President Muhammadu Buhari in his second term   administration  to act swiftly to implement this laws”.