The Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and its parastatal, the Nigerian Institute of Leather Science and Technology, (NILEST) in collaboration with the member representing Langtang North/Langtang South federal constituency, has commissioned a multi-million naira Hon. Beni Lar Leather Processing Entrepreneurial Centre in Jos. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony, the member representing Langtang North and South federal constituency of Plateau, Hon. Beni Lar said the leather industry in Nigeria was estimated to be about N25 billion, employing hundreds of thousands across Nigeria with Kano as Nigeria’s commercial hub in leather production and processing. She pointed to Kano, Aba and Lagos as some of the cities that are making money from leather works. “Today history has been made in Jos and by the grace of God Jos is now joining these cities to supply and process leather in a big way. By the grace of God through the support of Nigerian Leather Science And Technology, NILEST and Federal Ministry of Science and Technology Jos will become the major hub for leather processing and production with the commissioning of this Beni Lar Center,” she stated, adding many of the youth in the state would now have the opportunity of being trained in leather production at the center. The federal lawmaker pointed out that the skin from goats, snakes, sheep and other animals would be processed at the centered. She commended NILEST especially the acting DG for her strong support in the establishment of the center, adding all she set out to do was to ensure that the youth had an avenue to generate income through leather processing and production. She said the acting DG, NILEST, Dr. Okparah gave her the idea to initiate something for the benefit of the country, stressing that Plateau State  has all it takes to make the center famous as it has many of the animals. She commended the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology for having a very good synergy with the National Assembly and for ensuring the realization of the project. The permanent secretary, Ministry of Science and Technology Mr Bitrus Nabasu who was represented by the director/CEO National Center for Remote Sensing, Jos, Mr Efron Gagere commended the principal actors for the actualization of the project. He challenged the youth who are direct beneficiaries of the project to guard it jealously and put whatever knowledge they acquire from the center into practice for their own benefit and the society in general. Also speaking, the acting director-general and CEO of the NILEST, Dr. Eucharia Ngozi Oparah stressed the commitment of her organization in addressing the diversification efforts of the current administration and the need to patronize made-in-Nigeria products to reduce unemployment rate in the country. She made a case for collaboration between the executive and the National Assembly to take technology to the grassroots and develop small and medium enterprises across the country and commended Hon. Lar for building the entrepreneurship development centre aimed at developing Nigerian youth, women and retirees to improve their standard of living and empower them  to create job and wealth  as well as self-reliance. “Nigeria can be great through the encouragement of indigenous technology. This project is a boost to unlocking the enormous potentials existing in the leather sector for the benefit of Plateau State and Nigeria at large. Nigerians are generally known to be very entrepreneurial, mobile and ambitious and with support from the government such as this, in no distant time the Nigerian leather brand will compete favourably with the Italian brands. Being a major productive sector, next to petroleum industry in terms of foreign exchange earnings, the leather sector is the nation’s next goldmine and holds the key to industrial growth, economic diversification, jobs and wealth creation,” she added. The art of leather work has long history in Nigeria. It can be traced back to the beginning of civilization when it has been in use since the existence of early man. Leather is the second form of clothing after leaves in the history of man’s effort towards concealing and decoration of various parts of his body.    