Global attention was turned on Nigeria yesterday as her citizen, Ambassador Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, emerged the president of the 74th United Nations (UN) General Assembly. The Nigeria Permanent Representative to the UN, who was the sole candidate for the position, was elected through acclamation at the 87th plenary meeting of the Assembly in New York. Muhammad-Bande is the second Nigerian to hold the office after Gen. Joseph Garba, a retired military officer and diplomat, who led the organ between 1989 and 1990. Before the election, President Muhammadu Buhari had sent a high-powered delegation to New York to woo the international community for the candidature of Muhammad-Bande In a reaction to the cheering news, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs applauded the emergence of Prof. Muhammad-Bande, as the president of the 74th Session of the UN General Assembly. The ministry’s acting spokesperson, Mr. Friday Akpan, in a statement he in Abuja yesterday, said that the election was a positive development and demonstrated the confidence in Nigeria’s ability to pilot the affairs of the foremost global institution. Akpan said: ”Prof.  Muhammad-Bande is the second Nigerian to occupy the position. Maj-Gen Joseph Garba (rtd) was the president of the 44th session of the United Nations General Assembly between 1989 and 1990,” he said. Muhammad-Bande will officially take over from the current president, María Garcés in September. He will preside over the affairs of General Assembly, which has been a forum for lofty declarations, sometimes audacious rhetoric, and rigorous debate over the world’s most vexing issues, from poverty and development to peace and security. As the most representative organ of the UN, the assembly holds general debate in the organisation’s New York headquarters from September to December and convenes special sessions at other times to address a range of issues. The last session of the General Assembly opened on September 18, 2018, with heads of state and government convening for the general debate beginning September 25. The General Assembly is the only universally representative body of the UN. The other major bodies are the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Secretariat, and the International Court of Justice. As delineated in the Charter of the UN, the function of the General Assembly is to discuss, debate, and make recommendations on subjects pertaining to international peace and security, including development, disarmament, human rights, international law, and the peaceful arbitration of disputes between nations. It elects the non-permanent members of the Security Council and other UN bodies, such as the HRC, and appoints the secretary-general based on the Security Council’s recommendation. It considers reports from the other four organs of the UN, assesses the financial situations of member states, and approves the UN budget, its most concrete role. The assembly works with the Security Council to elect the judges of the International Court of Justice.  UN Chief Pledges Support For UNGA’s President-elect UN Secretary-General António Guterres  has assured Muhammad-Bande of his support to actualise his vision. Guterres gave the assurance in his statement shortly after the election of Muhammad-Bande at the 87th plenary meeting of UNGA in New York. He said: “It is my pleasure to congratulate Prof. Tijani Muhammad-Bande as President of the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly. “Prof Bande, you bring many important and remarkable qualifications to the job. From your years permanent representative of Nigeria, you know the United Nations well. “And from your wide ranging academic pursuit, you an expert in political science and public administration. “And as a Nigeria and an Africa, you have invaluable insight into the continent’s challenges such as the Sahel and the Lake Chad basin, and more broadly to the challenges our world faces across the six pillars of our work – peace, sustainable development and human rights. “We wish you well in your preparation for this role in the months ahead. “Mr President-elect, we all look forward to working with you and you can count on my support, as we strive to reach our shared goals and uphold universal values.’’ In her remarks, outgoing President of the 73rd Assembly, Ms Maria Espinosa, also congratulated Muhammad Bande, describing him as the man for the job. “Amb Tijani’s career and experience both as a scholar and a diplomat should serve him and the General Assembly well in a session that promises to be pivotal. “Amb. Bande is well seasoned to provide the strong and creative leadership our august assembly requires as he positions himself to be relevant in a world in rapid change. “Your presidency, Ambassador, comes at a very critical moment for the United Nations and multilateralism. “I am confident, however, that under your able leadership we will make  meaningful progress to advance the implementation of 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in sustaining peace and conflict prevention as well as the promotion of human rights and the empowerment of women and girls.’’ She assured the president-elect of her commitment to a smooth transition in September. In his acceptance speech, Muhammad-Bande thanked the Federal Government for nominating him for the position, and the African Group in the Assembly for endorsing his candidacy. He pledged to provide a vibrant and purposeful leadership anchored on accountability and transparency. “As I announced in my mission statement and during the interactive dialogue on May 13, the implementation of existing mandates and the 2030 agenda with particular focus peace and security, poverty eradication, zero hunger, quality education, climate action and inclusion will constitute the major priority of my presidency. “ I am committed to promote partnerships that are needed from all stakeholders to achieve our objectives, and ultimately ensure that we do our best to ensure peace and prosperity, particularly for the most vulnerable. “10:46 I wish to reiterate that as President of the 74th session of the General Assembly, openness, inclusivity and transparency will guide all actions of the office of the President of the General Assembly.’’ Federal government delegation led by the permanent secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mustapha Sulaiman, witnessed the event. Other members of the delegation are the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar; Executive Secretary, Petroleum Technology Development Fund, Bello Gusau, and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. Prof Attahiru Jega, former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), was also present. 