In this report, OLADIPO MAGAJI chronicles efforts by Non governmental organisations, to put smiles on the faces of residents of rural communities in Kwara State through execution of some education and water projects In recent times Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) have provided succour for the suffering residents of rural communities in Kwara state. The NGOs are providing interventions for the rural populace in the provision of potable water and educational advancement of indigent students. Two of such community spirited voluntary organisations- Grassroots Aid Initiative and a United Kingdom based  BHAMUSON foundation of late, donated boreholes to some communities and awarded scholarships to some indigent students in the state. Grassroots Aid Initiative which places premium on  rural development and enlightenment, has executed borehole projects to provide potable water for four rural communities in Kwara and Oyo states. Speaking at a ‘Women2girl Empowerment Summit’ to boost self esteem among secondary school students in Ilorin, Kwara state capital, the coordinator of the organisation, Dr Kehinde Kadiri, said that the fund for execution of the borehole water projects, including some of its other programmes in Kwara and Oyo states were sourced from donors through social media advocacy. Kadiri, who is also a Mass Communication lecturer in the University of Ilorin, said that the water projects were sited at Ago-Oja, Asa local government, Kwara state and Elewuro community in Surulere local government area of Oyo state. She said that the fourth project is ongoing, adding that it is  located at Aiyekale village, Orire LGA, Oyo state. Kadiri, who said that water problem is the greatest challenge among rural dwellers, lamented that government had not done enough to address it. “We want to position and brand the NGO as water solution NGO. We want to concentrate on water provision, especially in our rural communities. That’s the vision now. We realise that water is a very big problem among rural dwellers, yet the government is not paying necessary attention. During our feasibility study visits to these rural areas, you see girls going about looking for water during school hours”, she said. On how she gets assistance for the water projects, Kadiri said she always puts rural water challenge in a particular community on social media platforms, convince people on the problems and solicit for funds from them. “We have been able to build three water projects. We are on the fourth project at Ayekale village, Oyo state. We also believe we’ll do another one before the end of the year. “Among challenges in our rural communities, water problem is the greatest challenge. When water problem is solved, they can manage to adapt to other infrastructural challenges such as roads and so on, because water provision would discourage health problems and  encourage empowerment. Water is at the centre of everything. Water is life. “For instance, in Ayekale village, the women use almost 80 per cent of water in production of locust beans. The only way to do this is through use of dirty water in the community. Interestingly, this locust beans is not meant for consumption of only the immediate community but for people who live far and near. So, the problem in the village could be transfered to people in the cities”, she said. Kadiri, who said that the NGO had also been able to build a modest house for an aged woman, added that the organisation also effected payment of school fees for children from poor homes in various rural communities in the state. Speaking on the empowerment summit for school students, Dr Kadiri said that one needs more than education in this present time to ensure better living, adding that self confidence and soft skills would help one to excel. She charged parents to promote self confidence and soft skills among girls, by assigning general household chores to them rather than assigning specific feminine chores. “For instance, when a girl chooses to study engineering courses in university, the society would disparage saying it’s a  male field. Why not nursing or food science? We live in a patriachal society, where man is seen as being supreme and the head and women submissive. “All these affect self efficacy of girls in life. We need not wait till the girl child grows up to be an adult to start preaching these soft skills. A girl child is enough, you don’t necessarily need to be a man to achieve in life. Once you believe in yourself, you can achieve your set goals in life. So, we are trying as much as we can to break that stereotype in the society”, she said. On its part,  BHAMUSON foundation has presented scholarship awards to pupils of some selected primary schools in Kwara state. The scholarship award which is worth millions of naira, featured payment of school fees as well as presentation of school uniforms, textbooks, notebooks, shoes among others. Speaking during the presentation in Ilorin, the Coordinator of BHAMUSON foundation in Nigeria, Alhaji Gbadebo Lawal said the foundation was established some years ago for charity and humanitarian services. The ceremony which took place at Adeta primary school, Ilorin, attracted eminent personalities including school teachers and parents of the beneficiaries. Gbadebo explained that the founders of the BHAMUSON foundation were old students of Queen Elizabeth School, Ilorin and other volunteers based in UK and Nigeria. He added that the main aim of establishing the foundation was to assist the less privileged in the pursuit of their academic endeavour. Gbadebo said many pupils had benefitted from the foundation’s scholarship award from primary to secondary school level. He explained that the foundation had sunk bore holes for many communities suffering from water problem, while a lot of dilapidated school structures had been rehabilitated with millions of naira. According to him “as a charity organisation, they help underprivileged children in society by providing scholarships to deserving pupils in primary school and by providing school materials such as school uniforms, school sandals, writing materials, school fees, PTA levies and text books”. Lawal urged parents to assist the foundation by supporting their children in their studies through sustained encouragement, maintaining that positive result would spur the foundation to offer more scholarship in the future. The Head Teacher of Adeta ‘A’ LGEA primary school, Ilorin, Mallam Issa Jimoh and Head Teacher of Apalara/Adewole LGEA school, Ilorin, Hajia Ramat Onagun thanked the foundation for its contributions to the education sector. Speaking on behalf of the parents of benefitting pupils, Mrs Afusat Sulyman, thanked the foundation for its kind gesture, praying to Almighty God to enrich the members of the foundation. The recipients of the scholarship award include: Yinusa Toyin, Abdullahi Fatiha, Mohammed Rodiyat, Abdulganiyu Jamiu, Abdurahman Rofiat, Musa Mariam, Adebayo Yusuf, Abbas Rokeebat, Sulyman Abdulrafiu and Abdulrasaq Jemilat.