Nigeria’s leading sugar manufacturing company, Dangote Sugar Refining Plc, has earned the kudos of its shareholders for posting a profit-before-tax of N34.6billion for the 2018 financial year. They attributed the company’s feat to its resilience despite the harsh operating environment. The board and management of the sugar refinery were also commended for the firm’s continuous dividend paying streak. At Dangote Sugar Refinery Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos, the national coordinator, Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Mrs Bisi Bakare, said that though many quoted companies were struggling with the payment of dividends, the company was consistent in taking care of shareholders. According to her, investors were always happy when they receive returns on their investments both as dividend and share price growth on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). In his remarks, the founder of Independent Shareholders’ Association of Nigeria (ISAN), Sir Sunny Nwosu, decried the negative impact of Apapa-Wharf traffic situation which had impacted negatively on the performance of companies as they struggle to move finished goods and raw materials to distributors and warehouses. He said that the board and management deserve a pat on the back given the situation under which they achieved the result. The chairman of Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc, Aliko Dangote, reiterated the resolve of the company to soar to greater heights and create more value for stakeholders despite the plethora of challenges in the economy. He said that the company posted a profit-before-tax of N34.6billion with a turnover of N150.4 billion for the 2018 financial year even as he lamented the continuous smuggling of sugar into the country. Dangote said that the sugar firm was able to post an appreciable resilient performance despite the gloomy economic outlook at the dawn of the previous year 2017. He told the shareholders that Dangote Sugar was able to weather through the economic downturn and advanced significantly in 2018 because it pursed aggressively its backward integration plan by focusing on issues that had been bogging down the plan and subsequently adjusting the timelines. “2018 was quite a challenging year for the company with several negative activities, which include the influx of smuggled sugar into the key markets nationwide coupled with the Apapa traffic gridlock which continue to affect evacuation of products from the refinery,” Dangote stated. The company chairman explained that prior to the traffic logjam at Apapa, the company could move up to between 60 and 70 trucks out of the refinery but that since the problem started, it could hardly move up to 20 trucks out of the refinery daily. Dangote said that the firm had to revise its backward integration timeline to mitigate against the unforeseen challenges, noting that the first phase of the plan include the rehabilitation and expansion of the Savanna Sugar, the Lau/Tau project in Taraba State and the Tunga sugar project in Nasarawa State. According to him, Savanna Sugar remains the only outfit producing sugar from sugarcane grown in the country and had just ended its 2018/2019 crop season. “Rehabilitation of the land and its infrastructure for improved yield and output is still on-going,” he stated. Dangote disclosed that the first phase expansion of the Savanna Sugar capacity from the current 3,000TCD to 3,500TCD has been completed, while the subsequent increase of production capacity to 6000TCD has commenced and is expected to be completed by 2020 “as well as the installation of the new 12,000TCD factory that will be fed with the increased cane supply.” He said that at Tunga, activities are underway at the 68,000 hectares sugar projects site. Activities ongoing at the project site include the establishment of the cane seed nursery, housing and other basic infrastructure with the project currently employing 325 staff with potential for increase towards the fourth quarter of the year.” In the same vein, the DSR chairman said that the company was into several corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects in the host communities of Tunga that would cater for 25,000 beneficiaries. According to him, school and water projects were undertaken in the Savanna Sugar host communities, while 13,000 women were supported with N130 million through the Aliko Dangote Foundation. Looking ahead, Dangote said that despite the challenges, the company was committed to the medium and long-term goals of the project by investing and growing the business efficiently even with the cost optimisation efficiency project on-going in the Apapa refinery. Meanwhile, the shareholders were full of praises for the management for the modest achievement during the period under review, saying several companies were just reporting tales of woes at their meetings. The shareholders urged the management to continue with the strategies that had made the company to raise its head high in the murky waters of economic downturn.