SUNDAY ISUWA and KAUTHER KAHLEEL capture the moments at the valedictory session of eighth National Assembly It was solemn and intense moments as federal lawmakers relived the good, bad and ugly experiences they created in the last four years of the Nigerian legislature. At the last sitting of the eighth Senate and the House of Representatives whose tenures expired last Thursday,  the legislators, while taking stock of their performances, reviewed their gaffes, bragged about their achievements and, perhaps, wished they could have done better. For those who wouldn’t return, they had a more sober disposition even as the reality that they would no longer enjoy the airs of a serving lawmaker dawned on them. Those who would be returning to the chambers were largely measured in their remarks. In all, they spared moments to remember their colleagues who passed on before the tenure expiration of this National Assembly. The outgoing Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki, while speaking at the Senate chamber, was expectedly introspective, what with the political twists and turns that charactised the relationship between the executive and the legislature under his Senate Presidency. Saraki in his remarks believed that there will always be frictions between the two arms of government if the presidency refuses to have engagements and consultations with the leadership of the National Assembly before the President submits the budget to the legislature. According to Saraki, if the executive sees the failure of a few of its appointees to secure confirmation by the Senate as a disagreement, then the relationship will not improve. “It is also important that I make some comments about Legislature-Executive Relations. My own take is that if the Executive sees the National Assembly’s work on the budget as interference despite the provision of the constitution, then there will continue to be problems between both arms of government. “If the presidency refuses to have engagements and consultations with the leadership of the National Assembly before the President submits the budget to the legislature, then there will continue to be frictions. If the Executive sees the failure of a few of its appointees to secure confirmation by the Senate as a disagreement, then the relationship will not improve.” Speaking further, Saraki said:”If the Executive encourages its appointees who fail to secure Senate confirmation to remain in office, then there will continue to be disagreement. “If the Executive believes the Legislature is a rubber stamp without the right to question its actions, then it will be a subversion of the Principles of Separation of Powers and Checks and Powers. “My advice is that both arms of government have a role to play in our quest for good governance and their leadership should work for co-operation and fruitful engagement. At this juncture, I must express my gratitude to the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu. History will be kind to you and providence will shine upon you. I am sure you never thought you would be Deputy Senate President in an APC majority parliament, but it happened. Nobody made you Deputy President of the Senate, the Almighty willed it,” Saraki said, insisting that power is transient. Saraki who commended Sen Ahmed Lawan and Sen Ali Ndume who served under him as Senate leader, added that it was evident that among the two of them, one will be senate president of the 9th Assembly. “There is no way I can end this speech without recalling a certain injunction which goes thus: If we speak the truth, we will die; and if we lie, we will die, so we might as well tell the truth. I am, of course, paraphrasing the inimitable Dino Melaye whose flamboyance, catchy turns of phrase and songs meant that the 8th Senate was never in danger of becoming staid. “Dino and Senator Kabir Garba Marafa made sure that there was always just enough colour and exuberance to keep us chuckling now and then. They kept us from taking ourselves too seriously, and that too, had its place,” Saraki said. Saraki was elated that there was no scandal in the 8th Assembly even though he regretted the loss of three Senators. Also speaking, the outgoing senate Leader, Ahmed Lawan who said he supported the PDP government when he was in the opposition, commended his colleagues for the support they gave the APC led government. “I supported the government of the PDP when I was in the opposition. I am also commending my colleagues for supporting the APC-led government in the last four years. “We can make the legislators relevant and respected when lawmakers do their constitutional roles effectively from oversight to legislative activities and representation. We need to be united and focused irrespective of our political parties so that Nigerians would be better for it,” Lawan said. He added that there is no way the country can move forward without the active cooperation between the executive and the legislature. I am not saying that the legislators should not disagree.” Meanwhile, the former senate leader, Ali Ndume, warned that compromising the independence of the legislature will be very dangerous. Ndume, who also spoke during the valedictory session urged the lawmakers to do what they can do to nurture democracy and nurture the independence of the legislature. Appealing to his colleagues to forgive him in wherever he has offended them, Ndume urged the lawmakers to rise to defend and protect the sanity of the Senate, as there is no Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or All Progressives Congress (APC), adding that the 8th Senate has done a lot and encouraged the 9th Senate to learn from the 8th Senate. Also, Senator Dino Melaye revealed his ordeal in the hand of Police between 2017 and 2018. Speaking during the valedictory session, Dino, who represented Kogi West in the parliament, said that he spent 124 days in police custody. Melaye, who sang a hymnal song at the floor of the Senate, said he only campaigned for just eight days to  the 2019 election, added that, “ I was in police custody when the recall process failed woefully. I am here to thank God because in 2017, I was arrested eight times. In 2018, I was arrested 18 times and out of 365 days in 2018, I spent 124 in police custody. I campaigned only four days to the 2019 election.” Speaking further on his ordeal, the Kogi Lawmaker said that last year alone, he was arraigned in 12 different courts. “Many of those who orchestrated your removal failed. They are now commending you. Mr President, it is your time to laugh. “I want to thank God Almighty, who is the supreme controller of the universe being alive and sitting here today. You will recall severally, Mr President, I addressed you as the irremovable President of the Nigerian Senate when cankerworms and caterpillars arise against thee, when the seat of power took you to Code of Conduct Bureau, when the state petitioned you and took you to the courts and established a case of forgery against you. “Today, Mr President, you are not just completing your term but you are going to have a glorious exit against the machinations of some demons. I congratulate you. And to my surprise, many of those who orchestrated your removal, downfall on this floor, called you their mentor. Mr President, it is your time to laugh. “I have every cause to glorify God who is above every other man. Last year, I was arraigned in 12 different courts but here am I standing and returned undisputedly as a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. And I say to God alone be the glory forever and ever. “I have two historical days I will never forget in the history of the Eighth Senate. One is a day of joy and merriment, the other is a day of sorrow and pain. “The day of joy and merriment was the day one single Nigerian with multiple competences, one man who is indoctrinated with the art of civil administration and the rudiments of politics, intellectually mobile and administratively sagacious. I am talking about the day Abubakar Bukola Saraki became the President of the Nigerian Senate. And my elder brother and intellectual bank of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu became the Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate. “My day of sadness, weeping was the day my own colleague, Ovie Omo-Agege led dissidents, thugs to desecrate the chamber of the Nigerian Senate. It was the day he led criminals to move the symbol of authority out of the sacred chamber of the Senate. And just like the Bible said,’Jesus wept’. That day, I wept. “Going further, I want to advise us as senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that once you take the oath of office, you cease to represent your political party, religious organisation, a cabal on this platform. “We must know that in the Ninth Assembly, fortunately or unfortunately, some of us are going to be there. We will continue to work without fear or favour that Nigeria shall be ahead of any political permutation, presidential or gubernatorial, party permutation. Nigeria shall come first before any selfish interest. And we will stand by that and continue to speak the truth not minding whose ox is gored. “I congratulate my colleagues who are coming back. You have another opportunity to prove that you are truly a Nigerian because no Nigerian is more Nigerian than any other Nigerian. We must prove that we are here on behalf of the people. And we must continue to do only those things that will promote the unity and prosperity of Nigeria. Enough of presidential orders, enough of party directives. Any order that is contrary to the progress, unity and prosperity of Nigeria should not be entertained on the floor of the Senate,” Melaye added. The deputy Senate president, Ike Ekweremadu who first spoke, thanked the judiciary for standing by them. “The judiciary stood their ground, maintain independence. Most of us would have been in jail today,” Ekweremadu said adding that the senate amendment into the electoral act where cases must be completed in 180 days help in dispensing justice even in Zamfara state. “What has happened must be a lesson. History has a way of repeating itself. We must realise that loyalty lies in the hands of Nigerians. Unless we have peace, we can’t make progress. Unity will bring peace,” he said. The Minority Leader, Biodun Olujimi said the 8th Senate achieved a lot with her as the first female minority leader. She said what they thought will be the difficult thing became the easiest thing in the world when they elected Saraki as the Senate president because, according to her, some people were meeting at the International conference centre for a different motive. She commended Saraki for not invoking the doctrine of necessity when President Muhammadu Buhari travelled abroad for medical checkup. Olusola Adeyeye (Osun Central) said he decided after the 2015 general elections that he won’t contest again and stood by his word. “If I leave without pointing out some of the things we’ve done wrong, I will be doing disservice. We agreed that 10am will be our meeting time. But after four months, we went back to the old system of not keeping to time,” Adeyeye said. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that speaker after speaker, the senators condemned the invasion of the National Assembly where the maze was snatched. Out of the 109 Senators, 66 are not coming back while 43 will be part of those who will be inaugurated on Tuesday for the 9th Senate. The House was equally as sober. The lawmakers also took turns to reflect on events that happened within the chambers. However the valedictory session of the lower chamber was spiced up by the presence of their predecessors. Meanwhile, Hon. Mohammed Monguno who spoke on behalf of the members of the North-east caucus expressed his joy for the ability to finish the 8th Assembly well. He praised the 8th Assembly for being concerned for the plight of the Northeast and for its development. Hon. Ayo Omidiran, on behalf of Members of the South-west caucus expressed her gratitude to God for keeping members of all caucuses safe and sound till the end of the 8th Assembly. She affirmed that the 8th Assembly is a successful one by all standards. She prayed that the 9th Assembly should strengthen caucuses so that regional development will be enhanced. Hon. Nkem Abonta who spoke for members of the South-east caucus praised Members of the House for tolerating each other with decorum. He also thanked Members for supporting the Southeast development Commission Bill. He urged members of the 9th Assembly to be more focused and worship no one to gain more achievements for the Nigerian State. On behalf of the North-west, Hon. Garba Datti, equally praised members of the 8th Assembly and wished those not returning in the 9th Assembly all the best in future endeavours. He also congratulated members moving over to the Senate and urged them to remain worthy ambassadors of the House of Representatives. He praised the Speaker Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara for being a Nationalist to the core and being totally detribalised and for his selfless and humble nature. Hon. Orker Jev, who spoke for members of the North-cenral caucus expressed his pride over working with all members with whom he has formed a special bond. He expressed sadness as he would miss members whom he has grown fond of as he is crossing over to the Senate. He stated that the North-central region was one that was also ravaged by banditry and hoped a coherent effort aimed at rebuilding and rehabilitating it would be mounted. He also urged members to forgive him if he erred against them especially in his role as the Chairman, House Committee on Rules and Business. Hon. Betty Apiafi, speaking on behalf of members of the South-south caucus looked back into history and called for participation of more women in Legislation. She also called on the Executive to give more appointments to women to increase direct empowerment. She advocated for the full adoption of the tenets of the proposed e-parliament so that each Assembly can point to visible development. She also clarified that the peculiar challenges of the South-south region should ensure proper appropriation. With the caucuses over,  it became the turn of former principal officers cut across legislative dispensations. Rt. Hon. Umar Na’aba, who spoke on behalf of former Presiding Officers praised the 8th Assembly for staying true to the core of the House of Representatives and expressed their pride to be associated with the 8th House of Representatives. He also praised the leadership for carrying on the torch in great fashion. He called for continuous independence of the Legislature mixed with collaboration with the Executive in the forward interest of Nigerians. He termed it as demeaning for Parliamentarians to visit MDAs in Oversight and urged the invitation of such MDAs to come to Parliament for fact rendering. He also lamented the high level of insecurity and urged the Members of the 9th Assembly to collaborate with the Executive to ensure the democracy is depended. He lamented that the Nigerian economy and Party Politics has not developed in recent times. Also Rt. Hon. Olu Bunmi Etteh, who spoke on behalf of former presiding officers shared in the joy of members for their accomplishments. She urged Members who are not returning to aim higher, using those who have gone on to become State Governors as examples. She praised the leadership of the 8th Assembly for finishing well and urged the incoming leaders to aim higher. She urged the incoming Members to salvage the degrading situation of the Nation by working together with the Executive to achieve this. She urged the Executive to accommodate experienced patriots to continue to deliver from their knowledge base. She urged for more women participation in politics and governance. Similarly,  Rt. Emeka Ihedioha, who spoke on behalf of former Presiding Officers, conveyed their felicitations to the Leadership and members of the 8th House of Representatives for their wonderful work of keeping the flag of the Green Chambers flying high. He commended members and urged them to keep comradeship strong in all their future endeavours. He praised the Speaker Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara for coming out unscathed after all challenges. He also urged the incoming Members of the 9th Assembly to keep up the admirable trend. Appraising the eighth House, Prof. J. Dakas, who recalled that . Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara had pledged to wage a legislative war on Nigeria’s problems, said the Legislative Agenda of the 8th House of Representatives was highly instrumental to achieving that enormous feat. He noted that it was highly commendable that the 8th Assembly tried to decrease the cost of governance, a point that has pit the Legislature against the Nigerian people. “The mandate of the 8th House of Representatives has done creditably well in engaging with their representation of constituents,” he stated. The professor praised in particular The Not too Young to Run Bill, the PIGB and the North East Development Commission Bill of the 8th Assembly. He acknowledged the constraints of delivery facing Lawmakers as they are expected to deliver services that is strictly in the purview of the Executive. He praised the Leadership of the 8th House of Representatives for keeping the House United to deliver for the Nigerian people despite the manner the Leadership emerged, he urged the incoming Members to tow the same line and keep the House United after electing their leaders. He warned on excessive interest of political parties interests in trying to impose leaders on Honourable Members, as this is the role of Members alone. He also urged for the strengthening of the budgeting process, the Legislature is supposed to make inputs to budgetary estimates based on the information at their disposal on different sectors of the economy, this is definitely not padding. He however called for discipline in legislative inputs taking into account the government capacity to implement. He urged both Parties (Executive and Legislature) to try and ensure the timeline of budget delivery is complied with. He also decried the high turnover rate as members lose their seat before their full potential and influence is attained. He advocated for better information dissemination to the public so that Nigerians can appreciate the functions of a thriving Parliament. He rounded off by quoting the Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara’s charge to members to always put Nigerians first above Party and personal interest; to make Laws for the peace and good governance of Nigerians, as this shows the difference between leaders who plan for the next generation and politicians who only think of the next election. Afterwards, principal members made their remarks. Those who spoke include, Hon. Edward Pwajok; Hon. Chukwuka Onyema; Hon. Yakubu Barde; Hon. Pally Iriase; Hon. Ahmed Idris and Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa. While speaking, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, stated that despite the rocky start with which the 8th House of Representatives started, the leadership came together to steady the ship for the goodness of democracy. He stated that he would miss members not returning to the House. He charged members of the opposition in the 9th House of Representatives to continue to stand on the right footing and keep the Nigerian interest first. He commended the joint leadership of Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara and Rt. Yussuff Lasun for their wonderful examples to Members of the 8th House of Representatives. He prayed that whoever God gives the privilege of handling the power of the gavel in the 9th House of Representatives should take it to a better level. He also praised the qualities of Bills Passed in the 8th Assembly and called for more qualitative ones even if the numbers of qualitative Bills are not as many as people want, quality and content however trump quantity. Rt. Hon. Yussuff Lasun on his part,  advised that one of the most difficult roles to play is to be a Deputy as it portrays one as not having his own direction, but it is a capacity in which he has tried to be efficient despite contrary expectations. He urged the Executive and Legislature to continue to work harmoniously to ensure the budgeting process have less friction. He also hoped that in the near future the autonomy of the Local Governments and State House of Assemblies will be achieved. The House Speaker,  Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, congratulated Leaders and Members for witnessing the end of the journey just as he remembered members who passed away during the Course of the 8th House of Representatives. He also praised members for their cooperation in ensuring his Leadership was successful, noting that though it was full of intrigues and surprises, members went through it all together. “It is commendable that the tenets of the 8th House of Representatives deepened democracy despite the fact that it was one of the most persecuted. Parliament’s duty is to be a check on the Executive and it must never shy away from this democratic duty, no matter how it is hounded, as Parliaments are not meant to receive praise as a rubber stamp.” He also praised members for banding together in nationalism and patriotism and leaving out partisan politics in nationalistic issues. He however noted his concerned about the future of the economy of Nigeria, as well as the spate of insecurity; “the whispers once neglected has turned into screams threatening the ear drums of Nigerians.” He however noted his optimism hat the future is bright, not only by mineral resources; but by the Nigerian people. He gave his best wishes to Members not returning in the 9th Assembly. He called on members to forgive him in any way he must have offended any of them during his duty in the 8th Assembly just as he employed Members coming in the 9th Assembly to raise the bar set by the 8th Assembly. Following the speaker’s speech, the 8th House of Representatives adjourned Sine Die. With this National Assembly now locked in the annals of legislative history, it is anticipated that the incoming lawmakers and successors would be guided by the mistakes and successes of the last one.