The Plateau Specialist Hospital, Jos has handed a baby stolen from its maternity ward over to its biological parents after medical and police investigation. The baby was stolen by a women who disguised as a medical doctor three days after its birth. The chief medical director, Dr Philemon Golwa, while handing over the baby to the parents, expressed happiness over the recovery of the stolen child from its abductors. Golwa said that that generic testing conducted on both baby and the parents confirmed that they were the biological parents. “Today is not a day of mourning; it is a day of celebration of life that was thought to have been lost but now found. When this special baby was stolen from this hospital, I was worried, but with our efforts and that of the police, God has made it possible for us to celebrate. “We had a breakthrough on Thursday with the recovery of the baby from the woman who “technically” snatched her. The woman has confessed to the police that she actually stole the child. “Paternity test through DNA and the blood group, and genotype testing have all shown that the child belongs to the couple. They are the real parents of the child. “Even though the DNA test will be ready in two weeks as we have taken it to another state for confirmation, the testing of the blood group clearly shows that this couple is the baby’s parents,” the excited CMD said. Recall that a baby belonging to 30-year-old Mary Chukwuebuka, a resident of Zarmaganda, Jos, was stolen from her, three days after birth, at the hospital where she went for delivery. Chukwuebuka had told newsmen that she gave birth on May 28, and the child, a baby girl, was stolen from her on May 31, by a woman who dressed and posed as a doctor in the hospital. The suspect, Mrs Leritshimwa Diyal, claimed that she was kidnapped hours to her expected time of delivery and had been delivered of a healthy female child while in the kidnappers’ custody. Diyal, 30, claimed that she was taken to a bush somewhere near Abuja, some 300 kms away from Jos, where she was delivered of the child.