As part of activities marking the 2019 Eid-el-Fitr celebration, the chief of army staff (COAS) Lt Gen Tukur Yusuf Buratai, yesterday, paid an operational visit to Headquarters 1 Brigade Nigerian Army and frontline troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI fighting kidnapping, cattle rustling, armed banditry and various forms of criminality in the North Western part of Nigeria. The chief of army staff who was represented by the chief of Training and Operations Army, Maj-Gen Lamidi Adeosun joined Muslim faithful to mark this year’s Eid-el-Fitr prayer at the Force Headquarters, Operation HADARIN DAJI in Gusua, Zamfara State. In a statement by the acting director of Army Public Relations, Col Sagir Musa, Maj Gen Adeosun later delivered the chief of army staff’s goodwill message to the officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army (1 Brigade & HADARIN DAJI) shortly after the prayers. The COAS commended the troops for their dedication, sacrifices and loyalty to the nation and urged them to remain steadfast in the ongoing efforts to checkmate insurgency, banditry and other associated insecurities in Nigeria. The chief imam of 1 Brigade, Capt A. Kado also offered prayers for the protection and victory of the chief of army staff, officers and soldiers of the  Nigerian Army as well as the entire people of Nigeria. Dignitaries that attended the prayer session included the Force Commander, Operation HADARIN DAJI, Maj Gen JJ Ogunlade, Principal Staff Officers, community leaders, soldiers and their families. He later proceeded to the front line on operational visit to troops deployed at the Forward Operation Base (FOB) Kauran Namoda, Operation HADARIN DAJI in Zamfara State. He further interacted with troops while boosting their morale by charging them to defeat all forms of criminality especially armed banditry in their Area of Responsibility (AOR). Gen Adeosun read the good will message of the COAS, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai to the troops while urging them to sustain the tempo by ensuring the criminal elements are defeated to enable them return to their respective stations to enjoy “barrack life”. He also assured troops of enhancement in their welfare package and remuneration. The COAS later paid a courtesy visit to the newly inaugurated Zamfara State governor, Dr Mohammed Bello, alongside members of his entourage. The executive governor who was visibly elated showered encomiums on the chief of army staff, Lt Gen Tukur Yusuf Buratai for his commitment in ensuring that Nigeria becomes a peaceful entity. He also pledged to support the Nigerian Army by providing the necessary logistics to ensure that the menace of armed banditry is eliminated from the state. He used the opportunity to request for more manpower to enable troops reopen the Gusau – Katsina -Sokoto road occasionally disturbed by bandits. The visit to Zamfara State reached a climax when the COAS hosted officers and soldiers of 1 Brigade Nigerian Army to Sallah Day Luncheon with the governor of the state and members of his council in attendance. 