***Seeks PMB’s Intervention The ongoing war of words between some top leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC), particularly the current National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and immediate-past National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun is unnecessary, a distraction and is weakening the governing party, the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena has said. Nabena called on President Muhammadu Buhari as the party leader to lead fence-mending efforts and address obvious grievances in many states and among stakeholders in the party. The Bayelsa-born APC Chieftain made the call while speaking to newsmen on the ongoing infighting. Recall that following clashes on the mode of primaries adopted to elected APC candidates for the 2019 election in some states and subsequent losses suffered by the party in some APC governed states, some APC leaders have traded blame over the losses. Nabena said, “The losses the APC suffered during the 2019 General Election in some states which we previously controlled is indeed worrisome. However, we are still the governing party which produced the President; control majority states and have an overwhelming majority in the National Assembly. “Compared to the failed Peoples Democratic (PDP), the APC remains the political party of choice for both Nigerians and politicians. I urge our aggrieved members to remain in the APC fold and settle their differences. In fact, in a few months, we expect a huge influx from members of the rudderless PDP and other political parties into the APC. “Elections have been won and lost. High-level meetings such as National Caucus and the National Executive Committee (NEC) are there to address party matters. I call on our respected leaders, particularly the current and immediate-past National Chairmen to end their public hostilities, particularly in the media for the sake of the party and focus on the important task of forming government at the state and federal levels to deliver on our Next Level mandate. We need a united house to ensure the growth and strength of our party. “In the immediate, I call on President Muhammadu Buhari as the leader of our party to lead fence-mending efforts and address obvious grievances in many states and among stakeholders in the party.”