As part of effort to boost small and medium business entrepreneurs in Nigeria, Association of Skilled and Vocational Artisans of Nigeria, ASVAN, have said they have mapped out plans to raise over N10 billion for its members to promote their businesses across the country. Comrade Everest Obijuru, national president of the body, who made this known in an interview with Leadership on Saturday in Abuja, noted that the fund is targeted at actualizing the economic and growth plan of the federal government, through skilled Nigerians who are the major engine of economic development in the country. The move, according to Comrade Everest, is to continue “to help the federal government reposition the informal sector which has the needed potentials to drive the economy in speed”. “We are good to go in the sense that we have an organization with over eleven million members across the country with each of them contributing certain amount of money to the project which is more than enough to raise the N10 billion. “This is a tip of an iceberg because there other areas we are looking at. That is why we are partnering with organization like KiaKia who are not only experts in technical support but also brilliant financial managers. “What we intend to do for our members is that we are going to do a raffle draw and it’s going to be in batches in every three months so that it will get across members. “We are going to take it from each state of the federation, said Comrade Everest who assured that the process “is going to be transparent” to ensure that every participant is satisfy with the process, adding that there are other plans lined up for members and prospective beneficiaries. “We have a lot of programmes line up for them because before now, these people are not organized. We want to have a situation, just as we have been doing in the last three years, where all our members will register their businesses, and by so doing the goverment too will benefit through the process. “We are also looking at a situation where all of them can benefit from the National Health Insurance Scheme, pension and many others lined up for them”. These are just few that I can mention for now. Also speaking on the forthcoming event, Olajide Abiola, Founder/CEO, KiaKia said they would be providing technical support and advice to help ASVAN achieve their set objective, which is very key.