To bridge the gap in Nigeria’s education sector and enable it contribute effectively to economic development, Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals said it has taken up a proactive measure by embarking on an integrated tripartite approach to boost quality of education in the public schools around host communities in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos. This approach includes a scholarship programme for students, a Train-The-Trainers Capacity Building Initiative for teachers and school infrastructure projects to improve the quality of education in the communities. To ensure students receive quality education, Dangote Oil Refinery and Petrochemicals’ in collaboration with NurtureHouse Limited, a company founded to strengthen quality education through enhanced teaching and learning and capacity development of teachers, organised a capacity building programme for secondary schools teachers and principals in Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos recently. The training sessions were delivered using practical, hands-on approach to learning. The sessions provided participants with opportunities to collaborate as well as practice knowledge and skills acquired. Speaking on the importance of the programme, Group Social Specialist, Group Health, Safety, Social and Environment (HSSE), Dangote Industries Limited, Mrs. Adenike Olaoye, said the capacity building programme underlines the huge impact that the company has in ensuring quality education in the host communities. According to her, the programme sponsored by Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals has kick-started a positive ripple effect that would be felt in the host communities for years to come. She stated, “This initiative and many more happening in the host communities are being driven by the Group HSSE department of Dangote Industries. The teachers training is part of the education and training component of our Community Development Plan (CDP) for our host communities. Ultimately, the CDP aims at building the capacities of local institutions within the communities so they become self-sustaining communities that can drive its own development thereby ensuring sustainable development.” Chief executive officer, NurtureHouse Limited, Mrs. Ayopeju Njideaka, said the programme was structured to help teachers gather new 21st century skills and also for administrators to understand what their roles were. She further said that, “The training is expected to motivate teachers and principals to work positively. Once a motivated adult walks into a classroom to teach, the students will also be motivated and teachers will be renewed with even more skills to teach them better. Ultimately, learning outcome is expected to improve.” Njideka said the objective of the professional development session for teachers was to improve the quality of education provided to students in the secondary schools. According to her, “There is an agreement between us and Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical to monitor what the teachers are actually doing.” Speaking at the end of the programme, president of All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), Mr. Fakorede Banji, who is also the principal, Iwerekun Community Senior High School, Lakowe, Ibeju Lekki, urged Dangote Oil Refinery and Petrochemicals to ensure continuous training programmes for the teachers & principals. According to him, the training programme would assist the principals and teachers to be proactive in carrying out their responsibilities in order to improve the quality of education in Nigeria.