As the campaign for the leadership of the National Assembly gets stiffer, an advocacy group, National Alliance For Equity & Justice (NAEJ) has said the emergence of former governor of Abia State, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu as the Deputy Senate President (DSP) of the 9th National Assembly, will ensure regional balancing and equity. The pan Nigerian group stated this in a statement signed by Mazi Chukwuemeka Nwosu and co-signed by Hon Akinola Akinyemi and Alhaji Hassan Jubril respectively, adding that Kalu will be an asset to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The former governor, who is also the Abia North senator-elect, had already declared his intention to vie for the position of the deputy senate president when the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated next Tuesday. Urging the APC and senators-elect to throw their weight behind Kalu’s bid, the group noted that the emergence of the Abia North senator elect as deputy senate president would “reflect balance, equity, justice and national integration in the zoning of principal officers of the senate among the six geopolitical zones.” The group also noted that Kalu had worked to popularise the APC in the Southeast since he joined the party and has, over time, demonstrated his commitment to the success of the administration of President Buhari GCFR. The group added that as deputy senate president, Kalu would also be in a position to further solidify the foothold of the APC in the Southeast geopolitical zone. “Uzor-Kalu is a detribalised Nigerian leader, a fact reflected in the number of friends he has across Nigeria and beyond, the different chieftaincy titles he was found worthy to be bestowed with across the four corners of Nigeria.” “He is patriotic, outspoken and a goal getter with experience and capacity to engender consensus among contending interests, hence, he will be an asset to the 9th Senate, the APC, to President Mohammadu Buhari as a known bridge builder,” the group said. “Apart from his successful foray into politics, Uzor Kalu is also an astute businessman and publisher who have contributed to national economic development in various ways. We believe that Uzor Kalu will make a good deputy senate president and will complement the distinguished Senator Ahmed Lawan as the Senate President. “Uzor Kalu has demonstrated leadership whether you consider his forays in politics, business , philanthropy  or youth empowerment and we are sure that his emergence as the senate president will be added value to the National Assembly and the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, the group said.