A Non Governmental Organization, Uz-Uwani Professionals Association (UzPA) has appealed to Enugu State Governor, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to return the Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) to Adada community. The President of the group, Mr.  Jonathan Ezeh who made the call during a press briefing in Abuja, on Monday said this in line with the multi campus system recently passed into law by the state House of Assembly. According yo him, “It has become imperative to call the attention of the state government to the suitability of the Adada campus following comments that the state government was undecided over the location of the Enugu North campus of the state universit. Recall that thrle Adada campus of Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) was closed fifteen years ago in a bid by the then government of Chimaroke Nnamani to centralize the university structure in his native Agbani in Nkanu local government of the state in negation of the act establishing the institution. He also noted that the association has wrote to the state governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi said the people of Uzo-uwani local government where the adada campus is located consider it a mark of injustice against its people for the state to relocate the university campus. “We understand that following the restoration of the multi campus structure of the university by the government, three schools viz: Faculties of Medical Sciences, Agriculture and Social Sciences have been returned to Enugu North Zone.” He added that we are also aware that the state government will take advantage of the 400 bed specialist hospital which is government currently under construction in lgboano to host the proposed College of Medicine. According to him, Adada is the original campus of the faculties of ESUT Iocated in Enugu North Zone. Therefore, any shift of this original location is a grave injustice to the developmental aspirations of Uzo-Uwani people. He explains some of the benefit to establish university in Adada as, the Forest Reserve of the defunct East Central state, the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) of old Eastern Region, the Adada River/Dam, the Cattle Ranch And the proximity of the Adarice World Bank project in Adani. However, we are taken aback that the state government is said to be undecided on the location of the faculties been restored to Enugu North. As we mentioned above. The UZPA also called on the attention of the state government to take a look at poor infrastructural condition in the local government accusing the state government of lack of interest in the development of the area considered the food basket of the state. 