Honeywell Group Limited has partnered with the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) to help youths acquire relevant skills required to compete in today’s global marketplace. This talent development programme, which would be run under LSETF’s Lagos Innovates Programme, would provide student loans that cover up to 80 per cent of training costs for beneficiaries, who are then trained by any of LSETF training partners, for up to three months. Some of the courses offered are Full Stack Development with JavaScript (React JS, NodeJs, Express and Mongo DB + API Development), Full Stack Development for Mobile Applications (React Native, API Development), Python Programming for Web and Data Science. (Python  OOP, DJango & Data Science, and Frontend Design & Engineering: (UI/UX, HTML, CSS, ES6 & React JS). To pilot the first phase of this pivotal programme, Honeywell Group has provided the sum of N10 million, which would be matched by LSETF, to provide a total pool of N20 million, to train the first batch of students. Speaking on the partnership, head Innovation & Sustainability of Honeywell Group, Tomi Otudeko said, “We are pleased to partner with LSETF on this strategic and exemplary initiative that will impact positively on the lives of young people in Lagos State. “We are impressed by the work LSETF is doing and our investment in technology training is borne, first, out of our stated mission to “use enterprise to make our world better” and, secondly, out of our conviction that to innovate and thrive in the new economy, young people need to build tech skills.” Otudeko added that “We have also seen how well LSETF, through its Lagos Innovates Programme, has made its mark in progressing the Lagos-based tech ecosystem. The decision to work with LSETF was therefore an easy one. Together, we are poised to help build a pipeline of the next level of innovators who would develop disruptive technologies that will provide solutions to some of the critical social challenges facing the country.” Also, the acting executive secretary/CEO of LSETF, Teju Abisoye stated, “We are glad to work with Honeywell Group, to build a talent pool of globally competitive professionals, whilst actualising one of the most important mandates of the LSETF; which is to improve the skills and employability of the young people in the state.