The Comptroller General, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, says the Service, under his saddle, has successfully matched the identity of Nigerians into one, using the enhanced e-passport. The Comptroller General, who made the disclosure at the decoration ceremony of 53 newly promoted Comptrollers said, “We are putting everything in place to ensure that the service makes a very positive impact on the security matrix of the country as well as providing enabling environment for trade and tourism”. He explained that the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) and the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) joined forces to implement the mandatory usage of the National Identification Number (NIN), which also covers BVN on the travel document. LEADERSHIP Sunday explains that the enhanced e-Passport, which came into effect in April this year, is part of the new reforms approved by President Muhammadu Buhari’s led federal government and a product of intensive review of the existing e-passport booklet, which has been in circulation for over 10 years and has only a five-year validity. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari had, on January 15, 2019, while unveiling the new enhanced e-passport, directed that the NIN, which is issued by NIMC, be inserted as additional data in the new passports. The Immigration boss, who warned that no Nigerian shall obtain the new international e-passport, with 10-year validity, without the NIN said,  “With this stride, henceforth, names and dates of birth given by applicants must be the same given to Immigration Service and NIMC because any difference between the information given will delay the process as the system is programmed to identify accurate information and reject inaccurate information. He also reiterated that NIS’ willingness to accommodate NIMC in all its 44 diplomatic missions abroad and 42 locations in Nigeria, is to ensure that all Nigerians and legal residents are enrolled into the National Identity Database. Babandede said, a test run carried out by the NIS with 1,000 NIN samples to match with 1,000 biometric visas, yielded a success rate of 89.4 per cent, which means it is good and that Nigerians are providing accurate information. On the ongoing construction of a technology building, Babandede said: “Julius Berger has done well for the technology building. When completed next year June, we shall effectively monitor mobility of our borders. Our responsibility is to ensure that Nigeria is safer.” To the NIS boss, he said, “With this incentive, I want to task you to redouble your efforts to ensure that the statutory responsibilities of the service are achieved and geared towards securing Nigeria against the current myriad of security challenges.” “We are putting everything in place to ensure that the service makes a very positive impact on the security matrix of the country as well as providing enabling environment. He concluded”.