First Bank of Nigeria said it has partnered with the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to leverage the human traffic and commercial activities at various motor parks across the country to ease access to financial services. The bank also said it has been able to increase its Firstmonie agent network to over 27,000 located in almost all the local government areas of the country. FirstBank recently announced that over N1 trillion  had been processed through the Agent Banking Network. According to the chief executive officer of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, “Our Firstmonie Agent Banking network, spread across the nook and cranny of the country, is a demonstration of our resolve to promoting financial inclusion and business in the country. This indeed has been achieved with the concerted effort and commitment of our partners and registered Firstmonie Agents to taking banking to Nigerians regardless of where they are. “With them, we are committed to leave no stone unturned at bolstering the economic involvement of many more Nigerians, especially through our robust electronic services like USSD banking, Firstmobile, Firstonline and ChatBanking on WhatsApp.” In line with the financial inclusion objectives of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to bring financial services closer to Nigerians, Firstmonie Agent Network is designed by FirstBank to solve the challenge of access to financial services. Firstmonie Agents are empowered with secured digital channels to provide basic financial services such as account opening, Cash-In, Cash-Out, Funds Transfer, Airtime top up, and Bill payments to customers across the country. Alhaji Bashir Aliyu Muhammad Rimin-Gado, a Firstmonie Agent operating from Rimin-Gado area in Kano State said, “I have been with Firstmonie since they started and I can say that it has been a life changing experience, I have been able to build trust of the communities around me as many workers in my area have forgotten the last time they visited any bank branch for basic banking services. I am a proud employer of labour and as a result my staff are well paid and comfortable.” First Bank is also in partnership with Azuri Technologies Limited, an off-grid power distribution company to make access to off-grid power easy, especially in rural communities, as well as other institutions, who are seeking to provide resources to cushion the effects of economic and social shocks on low income individuals.