Federal Medical Centre, Keffi, Nasarawa State, under the management of Dr Yahaya Baba Adamu, the medical director and chief executive of the hospital, is presently in a state of unrest over the appointment of a new head of clinical services, Dr Chris Ede, by the governing board, sometime in May 2019. According to reports, Dr Ede took over from Dr Luka, whose two years in office expired in May 2019 but members of an unregistered group in the hospital, Nasarawa State Indigene Association (NSIA), are challenging the board’s decision and agitating for an indigene since Dr Ede is from Enugu. While speaking with LEADERSHIP, an eyewitness, who does not want his name in print, noted that members of the Civil Society for Human Right and Rehabilitation, Keffi, a nongovernmental organisation, stated that the agitation started on June 3rd, 2019. “On the said date (June 3rd), at about 9:45am, a group of people were seen rushing towards the mortuary area of the hospital. Within 30minutes, about 50 people, said to be staff of FMC, Keffi assembled at the store area (under a tree) opposite the mortuary unit of the hospital. “At the said gathering, as disclosed to us by the NGO, many aggressive utterances were made by some of the purported leaders of the assembled group against the new appointment. “We were also told that the leader of the group addressed the crowd and soon after his address, a sad scenario erupted. Suddenly, some selected few from the crowd rushed towards standing trees in the hospital, cut the branches and leafs, raised up placards and commenced loud songs which include: ‘We No Go Gree o, We No Go Gree’,” after the speech.” The noisy match, according to the eye witness, started from the mortuary area through the Obstetrics and Gynecology unit to the main gate, back to the Accident and Emergency Unit, General Outpatient Department (GOPD) and the main administrative complex of the hospital where they blocked the entrance to the complex for a very long time. However, the eye witness says the maturity of the security agents that were present and other staffs of the centre, prevented any provocation that could have ignited confrontations during the aggressive behaviour from occurring. Meanwhile, newspaper reports from national dailies have further revealed that that there are allegations against Dr Yahaya, the medical director and chief executive of the hospital, but the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU), FMC, Keffi chapter, has dissociated itself from the allegations. However, our source says investigation is ongoing while the outcome of the investigation will be made known to the public. 