The Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association (YYSA) has hailed the approval of local and state police by President Muhammadu Buhari. The association’s President, Olalekan Hammed in a statement on Monday said President Muhammadu Buhari had answered one of, “Our clarion calls to end insecurity in Nigeria with the approval of the establishment of state and local government police.” According to the youths, since the establishment of state and local government police has been approved, the state governments all over Nigeria can now decide on their own, the dimension through which the security architecture will take in various states in order to put an end to the problem of kidnapping, herdsmen/farmers clashes, robbery, cultism and terrorism. They noted that the step taken by Mr President was part of the restructuring Nigerians have been clamouring for. “We commend the President for the giant stride and as Oliver twist we are looking forward to see a Nigeria of our dream where there will be true federalism and regional autonomy. “More so, the development further shows that, President Buhari is a listening President who believes in dancing to the tone of Nigerians, a true democrat”, the youth said. Speaking on the revocation of gun licence as directed by the President, the youth said the enforcement of the law should start immediately by cracking down heavily on armed herdsmen who move around with sophisticated weapons like AK47, swords and others. While noting that the President’s directive must not be an empty threat, they said, “There has never been a time that President Buhari successfully enforce order on or against herders, despite the fact that, they kidnap, rob and rape people. “Since Nigerians are aware that President Buhari is toothless through the impunity enjoy by herdsmen, they can never obey gun licence revoke order. In fact, they have to defend themselves with all available weapons including natives. “Mr President has to go beyond declaring all gun licences revoked if he truly want to put an end to insecurity in Nigeria.’’ 