Nigeria’s economy may now save N20billion daily loss to traffic congestion on Apapa-Oshodi expressway, the road that leads to Nigeria’s two busiest ports in Lagos, LEADERSHIP leant. This is due to latest efforts by the government to address the challenges commuters have been facing on the road as the federal government recently gave 72 hours ultimatum to truck drivers to vacate the Apapa ports access roads. The government had mandated the Nigerian Navy and other military officials to cease from traffic management duty in and around the Apapa port. LEADERSHIP recalls that the president of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, had in 2017 said that Nigeria’s economy loses N20 billion weekly to the Apapa traffic gridlock. Also, the Organised Private Sector (OPS) lamented that due to the persistent traffic gridlock in the Apapa area, industrial capacity utilisation currently stands at 38 to 40 per cent, while 40 per cent of businesses located around the port communities had either relocated to other areas, scaled down operations or completely shut down. About 5,000 trucks seek access to Lagos ports on a daily basis along an access road designed to take only about 1,500 trucks daily. Also, about 60 tank farms are located around the ports, most of which were located without recourse to the original design of the ports, traffic consideration or the volatility of the products in the tanks, it added. This leads to trucks spending more than one week sometimes, to access the ports from Lagos mainland due to traffic gridlock. The development has very huge adverse implications for job creation, tax revenue and real economic activities, with estimated downside effect of about three per cent on the country’s Gross Domestic Product, the OPS had said. President Muhammadu Buhari last month issued a presidential directive for all trucks on the port access roads to vacate in 72 hours. The President also directed that all military and paramilitary checkpoints in front of the ports and environs should be dismantled thereby mandating the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) to be the lead traffic management agency. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) said that fixing the Tin Can Island Trailer Park alongside the Lilypond Truck Transit Park will finally eliminate the traffic gridlock. Meanwhile, Lagos state vice-president, National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) Dry Cargo Sector, Mr. Abdullahi Mohammad-Inunwa, had on several occasions lamented the high cost of money, truck owners’ pay just to get into the port to pick up goods. Also speaking to LEADERSHIP, vice president, Association of Nigerian Licence Customs Agents (ANLCA), Kayode Farinto commended the presidential directive saying it was long overdue even as he commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for the creation of a Truck Transit Park (TTP) that would also aided the decongestion of the port access road. In a telephone chat with our reporter, vice president, Association of Nigerian Licence Customs Agents (ANLCA), Kayode Farinto commended the rapid response of NPA to the directive and urged the government to allow the directive to be carried out holistically to allow petrol laden tankers and articulated vehicles to vacate the port road.