The 8th Senate has come and gone but it produced some members who charted a path their predecessors could not. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that such lawmakers attained feats others who served before them could not. While some of such senators successfully completed their four-year tenure in the last Assembly, others got re-elected  into the 9th National Assembly. For instance, in recent history, no Senator has completed his tenure in Gombe South while in Southern Kaduna and Ebonyi North, it will be the first time since 1999 that an elected Senator will be returning for a second term.  Senator Kabiru Gaya (Kano South) A former governor of Kano State, has also returned to the Senate for the fourth time, a feat no one has attained in his state. Gaya will be the highest ranking Senator amongst former governors in the red chamber.  Abubakar Bukola Saraki Senate president, Abubakar Bukola Saraki  took the position against all odds and permutations. He emerged Senate president against his party’s wishes.  And despite facing many court trials and attempts to remove him, including invasion of the Senate and snatching of the Mace, he is the first Senate president in the history of the country that left a ruling party but still completed his tenure as the chairman of the National Assembly.  Dino Melaye (Kogi West) He is the first Senator in recent history to face a fully completed recall process. Even after he survived it, he still spent 124 days in police custody. As a result of his ordeals, he defected from the ruling  APC to the PDP and  only campaigned for four days to the 2019 election and still won. In 2017, he was arrested eight times. In 2018, he was arrested 18 times. He was also arraigned in 12 different courts.  Joshua Lidani (Gombe South) Senator Lidani is the first person in recent history of the constituency to complete his term in the upper chamber of the National Assembly. None had ever finished their terms as senator in the constituency. All his predecessors died in office.  Ahmed Lawan (Yobe North) He is now the longest serving lawmaker in the 9th Senate. He came to the House of Representatives in 1999 and moved to the upper chamber in 2003. He has won all elections he has contested in the National Assembly.  Sam Egwu (Ebonyi North) In Ebonyi North senatorial district, no one has returned to the Red Chamber for a second time but Sam Egwu has broken that jinx.  He won his re-election into the 9th Assembly.  Binta Masi Garba (Adamawa North) Senator Masi Garba was the only female senator from the 19 states and Federal Capital Territory that made up  Northern Nigeria. Before this feat, Binta was in the House of Representatives but not for Adamawa North constituency. She represented the people of Kaduna State in the lower chamber. She expressed worry that out of over 39 bills vetoed by the president, the 8th Assembly did nothing about it.  Shehu Sani (PRP, Kaduna) He came to the Senate through the APC but ended up contesting the 2019 polls on the platform of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). Sani was always in a face off with his state governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai. Despite adding colour to the deliberations and proceedings in the 9th Senate, Shehu Sani was the only Senator that revealed what a Senator earned in a month.  Sen Ali Ndume (Borno South) He was Leader of the Senate in the 8th Assembly but lost the seat to the incumbent Senate president Ahmed Lawan in a ‘surprise coup’. The motion and voting for his removal were done within minutes soon as he stepped out of the chamber to pray. However Ndume, a Muslim, in fact the only Muslim in his family, has consistently won elections into the National Assembly as Representative and senator since 2003 despite hailing from a Christian-dominated constituency. He also survived the accusation levelled against him by a former administration that he was a sponsor of Boko Haram. He successfully cleared his name and rebuilt  his reputation as a high flyer in the Senate.