State chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday passed a vote of confidence on the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The chairmen also absolved him of alleged dictatorial tendencies, saying there was no evidence to substantiate the allegation. Rising from a closed-door meeting at the national secretariat in Abuja the chairmen said they have been fully briefed on the issues affecting the party at the national level. Speaking to journalists on behalf of the chairmen, Dr Ben Nwoye, who is also secretary, Forum of APC State Chairmen said the recent stories of troubled times for Comrade Oshiomhole was geared towards embarrassing the party and President Muhammadu Buhari. “We met with national chairman of our great party in company of members of NWC. We talked on relevant issues to the party. We discussed in details on party unity. At the end of the meeting,  we were informed fully on party issues and unity of the party. “Based on the information we have and the readiness of national chairman to lead this country to the Next Level, we have all unanimously passed a vote of confidence on the person of the national chairman and the NWC,” he said. He added that any news making the rounds that the national chairman is facing troubled time is not true. “We need to bring that to a rest. He is our chairman. He is a strong leader. He has all it takes to lead this party to the Next Level,” he insisted. Speaking on alleged dictatorial and high-handedness in handling party issues, he said: “Those issues are untrue. We found out that those issues are without merits. It is to malign national chairman. It is frivolous allegation with no counter evidence. “The report came out on the day President Muhammadu Buhari was inaugurated. It is to malign President, APC, and bring the party down.”  …As Party Constitutes Disciplinary C’tee  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has constituted a 5-man disciplinary committee towards unraveling the allegations made by the party’s deputy national chairman, Sen Lawal Shuaibu. LEADERSHIP recalls that, penultimate week, Sen. Shuaibu had written to the national Chairman, calling for his ouster over alleged misconduct anf high handedness among others. In a statement released late last night and signed by the party’s national publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the National Working Committee also passed a vote of confidence over the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The statement said: “The meeting of the National Working Committee at its 38th regular meeting held on 27th May, 28th May 2019 and 6th June, 2019, considered several issues, among which was the state of the Party. “After extensive deliberation, the NWC resolved as follows: “To pass a vote of confidence on the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole “To set up a five-man Disciplinary Committee headed by Otunba Niyi Adebayo to investigate the following: “The allegation leveled by Sen. Lawal Shuaibu against the National Chairman on issues involving the collective decisions of the National Working Committee.  “The instigation of Senators/Members of the House of Representatives by Senator Lawal Shuaibu against the decision of the Party on the choice of the Presiding Officers for both chambers (Senate and the House of Representatives) at the banquet Hall, Presidential Villa, even when these issues were all discussed and agreed by all members of the National Working Committee (NWC).  “Sen Lawal Shuaibu’s action was particularly embarrassing by moving around the Senators/Members of the House of Representatives to revolt while Mr. President was making his concluding remarks on the need for APC to present one candidate to avoid a divided house.    The committee is expected to submit its report to the NWC  within seven days.