The Plateau state government has declared every February 7 as ‘Forgiveness Day’ to further entrench peaceful co- existence in the state,  ACHOR ABIMAJE writes The inauguration of the Plateau state’s Governor, Simon Lalong for a second term of office on May 29, this year was a  unique occasion. Though, the inauguration of new governors simultaneously took place in 29 states of the federation, Governor Lalong’s featured a very important happening. On that day, the re- elected governor launched what he termed ‘Forgiveness Day’. He said that the day will be marked on February 7 every year in the state. Lalong, while speaking  at the ceremony  said a critical policy that his new administration will develop and embrace is the concept of ‘Forgiveness’. “ As part of our reconciliation moves and breaking the cycle of violence, which has engulfed our beloved state for close to two decades, we recently launched the ‘FORGIVENESS DAY’ to be marked every February 7.  This is a day we have set aside to reflect on our journey as a people and having in mind the various crises that have bedevilled our dear state. “This day will always be a day to chart a new path and rewrite our narratives and celebrate our taking the path of forgiveness in line with our different religious injunctions. “With this philosophy, our winning points will continue to be the insistence on impartiality, neutrality and fairness to all concerned, regardless of ethnic, religious and political affinities. Plateau is a State with diverse ethnicities. I therefore assure all and sundry of holding on to our policy of inclusiveness and get everybody in different position of responsibility to do the needful. “In this way, we would have justified earning the votes and confidence of the people. We would have also justified accepting the mandate to serve with all the humility and affirmation to move the people and state to the Next Level.” He added :” I have the immense honour to stand before you, the people of  Plateau state, today to yet again register my deep appreciation for the additional mandate you have given me to run the affairs of our great state for the next four years. “Today’s inauguration marks a new beginning for Plateau state, and reveals the limitless possibilities before all of us. On this occasion, we rise up to celebrate a new beginning and a day we set our course for greater future and prosperity. “This event also opens a new chapter in our march towards peace, unity and progress as it also signals another series of activities, developments and events which require all hands to be on deck in realising our collective aspirations in the task of leaving lasting legacies for the benefit of the present and future generations. “ He stressed that “It has always been my earnest prayer that I shall not disappoint the people of the state who have demonstrated their abiding faith in the APC-led administration in the state by voting for its candidates massively in the Presidential, National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly elections. “ According to him,  the path from 2015 to 2019 had not been without challenges, particularly in the area of security, noting that “sporadic attacks on communities occurred in some Local Government Areas, notably Barkin Ladi, Bassa, Jos South and Riyom, leading to deaths and displacements of people, destruction of houses, crops and livestock and mutual mistrust among community residents. “We continue to sympathise with the family and pray for the repose of the souls of the Faithful departed. “ The governor pointed out that  in line with his  policy of ensuring peace, government did not relent in its efforts as it promptly responded to the challenges the best way it could, by boosting security in the troubled areas and setting up Operational Security Bases in synergy with the Federal Government. Lalong added :  “We also introduced confidence-building measures and roadmap to peace, especially through the Plateau Peace Building Agency and stakeholders’ meetings. I had also signed into law various legislations dealing with administration of criminal justice, making it possible to decide certain cases in the State rather than taking them elsewhere. “In terms of human capital development, the education,health and agricultural sectors have benefitted immensely from government interventions, as detailed in my previous speeches. Thus, the huge debts and unpaid salaries and pensions were cleared while we have substantially reduced the debt profile of the State through prudent use of allocated funds and internally generated funds.” The second term governor said the hallmark of good governance is financial prudence, fairness, transparency, justice and humanitarian concern for the citizens. To this end, he said the government embraced the policy of fiscal discipline, by keying into the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and broadening our tax base. According to him, the TSA enabled the government to monitor revenue inflows and expenditure outflows, thereby ensuring prudence, diligence and accountability in all its financial dealings. “The creation of the Efficiency Unit ensured blockage of leakages, leading to huge savings,” the governor enthused. On his new mandate, Lalong said: “The next four years will be devoted to consolidating the gains already made and expanding more areas of development for the benefit of Plateau people. “We shall strive to inject new ideas and philosophical paradigm into our governance efforts. This paradigm will hopefully find expression in religious humanism. Governance is a two-way traffic, involving a social contract of duties and obligations between the government and the governed. Good governance presupposes loyalty, hard work, effective service delivery, and leaving behind a legacy worthy of emulation by subsequent generations.” He disclosed that the state humanism will be based on the principles that people need freedom and self-determination; that people should be respected and held in high esteem,  rather than means of negative governmental action; that people are fundamentally social in nature and therefore value or cherish community life; and that people have a right to seek truth and oppose authoritarian rule. “These ideas of liberty, human rights, democracy, and public scrutiny of opinion and governmental actions are essential to the smooth functioning of society. We must therefore learn to form communities that respect human life and tolerate differences to avert the embers of hate and fanaticism.” “Our vision for the new Plateau state promises to leave behind legacies of our commonality, human dignity and welfare. While as a Government we shall strive to meet our own side of the social bargain, we equally expect the good people of Plate state to reciprocate government’s  gesture, not only by giving their unalloyed support, but, more importantly, by learning to live in peace with one another so that together we can achieve the much desired development,” Lalong stated. The governor also admonished the people of the state  on some core values to which they should remain committed, adding that they should continue to espouse the core values of peace, unity, mutual respect, hospitality and progress, while striving to go beyond these by channelling their energies, and building the skills, competencies and capacities of our women and youth. In his words,  “ I therefore implore all Government functionaries and citizens to embrace the age-long philosophy of ‘Think Plateau, Act Plateau’ as a solemn orientation to preserve the Plateau’s core values towards industry and enterprise in productive ventures and self-reliance. Our strengths indeed lie in our diversity. I pledge that this administration will continue to serve diligently towards achieving our set goals. “We should recognise that corruption, dishonesty, disloyalty, rumour-mongering, fake news, religious and political fanaticism, ethnic jingoism, violence, and other forms of social evil are antithetical to our vision of the new Plateau, and must be avoided.” Lalong further declared that:  “As a mark of our appreciation and thanksgiving to God for the guidance, protection and successes recorded, and in exercise of the powers conferred on me as Governor in Section 212 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic Of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), after due consultation with the State Advisory Council On Prerogative Of Mercy, I have granted Prerogative of Mercy to one Prisoner, Mr Evaristus C. Mozie from life imprisonment to absolute pardon. This Pardon is granted for reasons of good conduct and determination to continue to be productive, with effect from the date of sentence. “We shall remain committed. We shall continue to espouse the core values of peace, unity, mutual respect, hospitality and progress, while striving to go beyond these by channelling the energies, and building the skills, competencies and capacities of our Women and Youth. “I therefore implore all Government functionaries and citizens to embrace the age-long philosophy of “Think Plateau, Act Plateau” as a solemn orientation to preserve the Plateau core values towards industry and enterprise in productive ventures and self-reliance. “