The Imo State Deputy governor, Hon Gerald Irona, yesterday, visited Eziorsu community in Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State to commiserate with the families of those that lost their lives in a bomb explosion that claimed the lives of three persons. Speaking during the visit, the deputy governor, Hon Irona, condoled with the people of the area over the incident, assuring that the state government would support the victims. “His Excellency, the governor of Imo State, Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha, sent me to, on behalf of himself and entire people of Imo State, condole with the Eziorsu community and Oguta LGA at large over the unfortunate incident that claimed the lives of three citizens of your area. The bomb blast is unfortunate. We will take steps to ensure that this does not happen again.” Describing the incident as an accident, the deputy governor urged people of the area not to take laws into their hands, appealing that they remain peaceful. He commended security agencies in the state for their swift intervention in the matter, urging them not to relent. Speaking during the visit, Imo State Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo explained that the incident occurred when a scrap dealer engaged the services of one of the victims, who, in trying to compress an iron, was killed, following the explosion of the Iron. “He was hitting the hammer on the Iron, trying to compress it, before it exploded. The two other victims- one, a passerby and another standing beside him, were unfortunate.” “On behalf of the inspector general of police, I advise people of Imo State to watch it. If you suspect any iron, don ’t rush to it, report to the police. Reacting to the visit, President General of Eziorsu community, Prince Emmanuel Ukado thanked the State Government for coming to condole with them over the incident. “Thank you for coming to see my people. We are consoled. We are glad that this government has remembered us. Your visit has given us hope. Your coming to sympathize with us shows that you have us at heart. It shows us that this new government will not abandon us.”