In commemoration and recognition of past and present heroes of democracy in Nigeria and those who have contributed selflessly in fostering peace, harmony and developments in the country, the 2019 Democracy Heroes Awards themed, “Reigniting The Greatness of Our Nation”, have confirmed the voting results of award nominees for the 7th edition of the epoch award holding in Abuja at Transcorp Hilton Hotel on the 5th of August, 2019. Speaking at a recent Press conference, the Executive Director of Democracy Heroes Awards, Alexander Ajagbonna known as King Fajag said that all personalities have been well scrutinised and evaluated for the purpose of fairness, equity, truth and sustainability of national impacts. He noted the finalist were gotten from popular opinions and decision of the general public who actively participated in an online voting process to choose those who deserve a particular award. Fajag made the confirmation to newsmen during the press conference organised by the Face of Democracy (FDN) team and held at Abuja, yesterday. “This year, there would be recognition of people leaving with disabilities, those who have contributed in one way or the other. Our team are working as we speak, looking in rural areas and getting information from resident to know those who have contributed to the sustainability of our democracy in their own way. “We are open to listening to everyone. There is room for you to nominate, if you think that there are categories that needed to be added to make it more credible, we are open to anything. Democracy Award is one of the most prestigious event in Nigeria. We congratulate the nominees even though they haven’t been decorated,” he revealed. Also adding his voice , Alex Nwankwo, the Director of Media and Publicity for DHA says for a democracy to be sustainable, there must be collective oneness. He said Every individual have a role to play in sustaining democracy, hence, making the award to recognises past and president heroes. “The award it out to celebrate the sustainability of our nascent democracy. This is a non partisan event. The award is outrightly out to honour and celebrate who honour is due. Everyone who has fought for the sustainability of democracy are among those we are honouring and they aren’t government officials.” Mr Nwankwo insist that the event is aimed at recognising the impact and contributions of leaders, public office holders and relevant Institutions who have helped to improve and promote national democracy, which would also be a commemoration of the June 12th Democracy day celebration, a major feat achieved by President Buhari as he honoured the late Moshood Kashimawo Abiola, who was the first democratically elected Leader in Nigeria. Excellency Arthur, the Strategic Partner, Democracy Heroes Awards, he says, “the honour is beyond personalities but also for the entire Nigerian citizens both at home and in diaspora who have played positive roles in the sustenance of Nigeria nascent democracy”. “As the theme of this year’s Awards suggest “Re-ignite The Greatness Of Our Nation”, it is essentially targeted at encouraging individuals who have contributed in their ways towards protecting and maintaining our Democracy which in no small measure relates in spuring Nigerians to do more for our nation and as such restoring our glory as the giant of Africa” Nwugha Emeka Mac- Victor, the Executive Director, Admin & Strategic Planning added. However, other members of the organising Committee of Democracy Heroes Awards are MC Expensive, the Strategic Brand Partner, Victor Atewe, Head Event Manager FDN/Media Consultant. The grand award ceremony will recognise several personalities across several award categories which includes, “Man of the Year”, “Icon of the Year”, “Best Performing Governor of the Year”, “Promising Governor of the Year”, “Law maker of the Year”, “First Lady of the Year” and about 30 other award categories. 