Despite the intervention of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), interception of containers by the maritime command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) still persists, YUSUF BABALOLA writes. Neighbouring West African countries are striving daily to make their seaports efficient, effective and technology – driven in other to reduce dwell time and clearance of cargoes out of the seaports. But, Nigeria, a supposed maritime giant, is making cargo clearance cumbersome and difficult on a daily basis through activities of government agencies who constitute bottlenecks to cargo clearance. The more successive governments restate their resolve to ensure 24 hours cargo clearance from Nigeria seaports, the more cumbersome it becomes. In Ghana, importers spend two days to clear cargoes out of the seaports, while in Cotonou (Benin Republic) and Togo, importers spend an average of seven days to take delivery of their goods. While these neighbouring African countries could have cargoes cleared within two days, it takes between 14 and 21 days (two to three weeks) thereby making importers accrue high demurrage and storage charges and leading to loss of business to the efficient nearby ports. Kofi Mbiah, a former, chief executive officer, Ghana Shippers Authority (GSA), revealed during his recent visit to the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in Lagos that Ghanaian ports have attained 48-hour cargo clearance. According to him, it takes between one and two days to clear consignments from any seaport in Ghana due to the successful implementation of electronic cargo clearance platform in Ghanaian ports. This has accelerated cargo clearance processes, such that cargo dwell time that was an average of 12 to 14 days has dropped to two days. However, one of the factors responsible for long cargo clearance at the seaports is issuing an alert for stoppage of clearance of certain cargoes by the maritime command of the Nigeria police. They also intercept already cleared cargoes from the seaports making importers accrue high demurrage and storage charges. The maritime command was created in 2013 by ex-inspector-general of police, Mohammed Dahiru Abubakar. The emergent command which is a fusion of the Marine Police Command, the Ports Authority Police Command (PAPC), and the Inland Waterways Formation is charged with the responsibility of maintaining law and order and providing adequate security in Nigeria’s ports and harbours. The Command which is also saddled with the task of tackling contemporary security challenges, such as armed robbery, piracy, kidnapping, gun running and other related crimes in the nation’s creeks, harbours and territorial waterways has abandoned its responsibilities to chasing of cleared cargoes and sending alerts to shipping companies and terminal operators to stop clearance of cargoes. Investigation has however, showed that the police has never intercepted any dangerous ammunition from cargoes they raised alert on but rather allegation Bello Adamu of under the table dealings had been rife. Speaking on the development, the immediate past president of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA),  Prince Olayiwola Shittu, said the sad thing about such blockade was that further examination were not done on such consignments but alleged that the owners were allowed to go after going to these officers to bribe them. He added that this new dimension was further driving away businesses from the Lagos ports. According to him, “The economy and the attitude of security agency and their extortion are affecting businesses at the ports. “People are running away from the western ports, they are either going to Cotonou or they are heading to the eastern ports because the one that is trending now is that the Maritime Command of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) are now writing letters to shipping companies not to release cargoes until the agents comes to visit them. “They write from Zone 2, Area B and the office of the Assistant Inspector General (AIG) in charge of marine. When consignments are exited, they write to shipping companies not to release until the clearing agent goes there to visit them and they have never come back to say the containers are suspect and that they want to re-examine. Once you settle them they release your cargo, the port is becoming very unfriendly,” he lamented. Also speaking, a maritime expert, Tony Anakebe, said Nigeria needs to address all clearing bottlenecks, such as long documentation and manual procedures, attributing the massive diversion of cargo from the country’s ports to other ports to long clearing days. “Importers prefer to import through the ports that are user-friendly. And this also results to loss of business for investors in the port industry as well as loss of revenue on the part government,” he added. Though, as the blockage continues, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council waded in by meeting with the management of the Nigeria police on the incessant blockage of containers at the seaports.  The Council’s CEO, Hassan Bello, who frowned at the interception, assured stakeholders that the Maritime Police Command would always seek directives from NSC when it concerns stoppage of containers. “The Marine Police Command will cooperate with NSC to make the ports meet its aspirations,” he said. Bello reiterated the order of the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Muhammed, barring other police formation except the maritime command from interfering in cargo clearance. According to him, these illicit activities by the police were impeding clearing processes at the Nigerian seaports. The NSC’s boss reminded the stakeholders of directive from the inspector general which reinforces the mandate of the assistant inspector general, Maritime, and the commissioners of police in charge of western and eastern authority as being the police formations with primary responsibility for police operations at all ports. According to the executive secretary, “Other men and officers of the police have no business in the interception of cargoes at the ports. He, however, expressed the Council’s readiness to embrace the order by the IG to address the unwholesome practices by police. He maintained that the NSC’s mandate as port economic regulator was to sanitize the ports, ensure that costs remain reasonable and Nigeria competes with other countries in terms of best practices. He said, “Even if they are to check the containers as part of their constitutional duties, they have to do it through the Nigerian Shippers Council. Sometimes they could have reasonable suspicion that something is happening, it is their constitutional duty, but they have to do it through us because we know that time is of essence in cargo clearance. We don’t want any hindrance to clearance of goods at the port,” he said. But, despite the assurance of the AIG and the intervention of the Shipper’s Council’s boss, the command still continues the interception. Speaking with journalists, the chairman of PTML Chapter of Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Mr Oluwole Obe, said that the police was still allegedly intercepting containers and demanding money. Specifically, the PTML chapter chairman said, “The police are still stopping containers coming out from the port, the Shippers Council directive is not effective.” He however, apportioned blame to clearing agents who also under declare the goods in their containers, blaming them for the increasing stop and search going on at the ports.