In a swift response to APC publicity secretary,Lanre Issa-Onilu’s allegations that he condoned indiscipline, the public affairs adviser to Odigie-Oyegun, Mr. Ray Morphy has dismissed the claims, saying the ex-chairman ran the party without blemish until Oshiomhole came and destroyed everything, “running the most fraudulent primaries in the history of world politics.” Morphy said that the “Oshiomhole’s executive is about a year in office, why does he find it hard to function without looking for excuses and scapegoats? “It is common knowledge that Oshiomhole ran the most fraudulent primaries in the history of politics in Nigeria. Recall that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said so when it adjudged the APC chairman’s primaries as the worst so far. The courts are saying the same thing today by upturning many APC primaries for being undemocratic and less than fair. Was it Odigie-Oyegun who ran the primaries? “Odigie-Oyegun, an accomplished technocrat, a super permanent secretary, a former governor, a man without blemish working with others cobbled together creditably the legacy parties, and held them together with tact, diplomacy and finesse until Oshiomhole came along. To his credit, Odigie-Oyegun did not lose one member of the party. “As an elder, as a leader, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun will not join issues with those who apparently are casting about looking for excuses for their inability to manage a ruling party successfully. “Indeed it is absurd to lose states with all the capacity at the disposal of the current chairman. Party members know that APC witnessed its golden years under the chairmanship of Odigie-Oyegun and no one can change that bit of political history. “By the way, the vote increase to Mr. President is a reflection of the confidence the people reposed in him despite the fumbles of the Oshiomhole sole administratorship of the party. “It will be recalled that Chief John Odigie-Oyegun just received The Zik Award for Political Leadership alongside John Mahama, the former president of Ghana. In the award citation, he was extolled for exemplary political leadership of APC. Posterity has already given its verdict: Oyegun led the party to resounding victory,” he said.