Deputy national chairman of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Lawal Shuaibu penultimate week called for the resignation of the party’s national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, a development that underscores the underlying perceived strains within the party, ANDREW ESSIEN writes The current National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) came onboard at a critical time in the party’s existence. Faced with several internal wrangling at various levels, party primaries and a general election to prosecute, a general feeling of dissatisfaction occasioned by complaints from stakeholders of lack of political patronage, the Adams Oshiomhole-led APC had a lot served on its plate literally from the first day of work. For political analysts at all levels, the national chairman was not going to come to a rose garden for a celebration. It was going to be a herculean task to blend all the interests that arguably saw to the exit of the former national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun some say. However, the national chairman has recently come under increasing attacks over his handling or otherwise of party issues especially since the primaries that produced party flagbearers at different levels of government. Accusations and counter accusations fill the media space over what did transpire within the period even as party faithful try to make sense of what is the true situation of things. This issue took a surprising turn when no less a person than the deputy chairman (North) of the APC, Lawal Shuaibu, threw the first stone by calling for the resignation of his party’s chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. In a letter to the chairman dated May 27, 2019, the top official declared the chairman’s leadership a “failure”. The former senator from Zamfara State in a five-page open letter, insisted that the party chair was squarely responsible for the party’s loss in his home state among other alleged gross misconduct even as alleged that Comrade Oshiomhole caused the APC loose seats. He also listed other dwindling fortunes of the party, which he said “is on the path of extinction”, to buttress his claims. He stated, “It is expected that for every decision credited to the party, it should be the result of a meeting where resolutions are passed by the working committee. He said: “It is also expected that policies by the party are always alI-inclusive and never one-sided and to cap it up, no unilateral decisions should be made to represent the opinion of the National Working Committee, the National Executive Committee or even the least, the National Caucus. The national chairman cannot assume the powers of the National Working Committee. “The last congresses in states, unfortunately, represented a complete lack of knowledge, let alone of experience on how due process in political electoral process is adhered to. “The National Working Committee is saddled with the responsibility of recommending guidelines for every electoral process and appointing committees that will embark on conducting primary elections for every constituency and submit report and thereafter an appeal committee will attend to complaints and petitions and also submit its report to the NWC. “The National Working Committee is then expected to perform the duty of the final adjudicatory body on each electoral matter and from there you have the final list of candidates. “The national chairman cannot, in any circumstances be the chairman of any committee, be it screening committee or any other committee contrary to what you did. The chairman presides over the meetings of the National Working Committee in which each matter disposed of by any appeal committee is examined and decision reached. “If the national chairman should chair any of these committees, what if there is a complaint about his own conduct, who do you send your petition to? He cannot be a judge in his own matter!” While insisting that APC is badly fractured, losing goodwill under ex-Edo governor, Shuaibu said the electoral fortunes of the APC had dwindled because of the leadership style of Oshiomhole, whom he accused of conducting the NWC meetings at a private residence instead of the party’s national secretariat. He added, “We had 23 states in 2015, but after the 2019 elections we lost seven states! We also had 60 senators in 2015 at the end of the elections; we now end up with 57 senators in 2019! You were not brought in to lose election. It is absolutely unacceptable! “What this entails is that for any senator to become a presiding officer he needs to go and kneel down before the PDP senators and beg for support! And to make things worse, you announced that the APC will not allow any PDP senator to be appointed as committee chairman except the committees statutorily meant for the opposition members of the Senate. That is never the tradition of the legislature anywhere! The legislature is the house of collaboration and lobby and you can never succeed with hostile approach, you must lobby to seek for cooperation of members across party divides. “If you don’t know, you have made the situation worse than it seems. Try and use your calculator and you will find that as at now, if anybody, backed by the PDP members, wants to become the Senate President, all he needs is the support of only six APC senators to win the election on the floor of the Senate! Chairman, strategies are not announced on television, they are discussed at caucuses.” But in a swift reaction, the South – South State Chairmen, rising in defence of the party’s National Chairman, faulted the public outburst of Sen Shuaibu who they say ought to be well acquainted with the provisions of the party’s constitution regarding how to channel perceived grievances if any exist. The State Chairmen rising from an emergency meeting in Abuja called to review the content of the said letter and to critically evaluate the situation, came to the view that the Deputy National Chairman North merely expressed his personal opinion on perceived issues which is not a reflection of the views of the generality of party stakeholders who are yet to find anything ontoward in the stewardship of the party’s National Chairman His Excellency, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The State Chairmen further disagreed with Senator Lawal Shuaibu’s claims that the actions of the National Chairman was responsible for multiplicity of court cases bedeviling various State chapters of the party rather, they asserted it was the landmines created by his predecessor who was bent on destroying the party before departing that fueled the unfortunate situation and wondered why Senator Lawal Shuaibu is just realising the issues he raised barely few days after the NWC set up a committee to look into petitions against highly placed party stakeholders who were glaringly involved in anti-party activities which was responsible for the loss of the number of states mentioned in his letter vis a – viz the depletion also in the numbers of elected Senators in the just concluded 2019 elections. The State Chairmen also debunked the allegations of high-handedness against the National Chairman with particular reference to the altering of National Working Committee decisions as a veil plot to crucify the National Chairman over his uncompromising stance on truth against elements bent on destroying the party from within. They however, urged for restraint on the part of Senator Lawal Shuaibu asking him to employ more civilised ways of expressing whatever private grievance he has against the National Chairman instead of playing to the gallery by granting interviews to launch unprovoked attacks on the National Chairman and by extension, the very party he claims to love. The State Chairmen wondered whose interest the media outburst seeks to serve and it’s original intent stating unequivocally that, the National Chairman cannot be removed on the pages of newspapers because the constitution of the party which Senator Lawal Shuaibu subscribed to, as a member of the NWC, clearly guarantees the tenure of office of the party’s National Chairman and the processes of removing him from office. The Deputy National Chairman North is hereby given seven days to apologise to the National Chairman in order not to receive the wrath of party members in the South South. The State Chairmen also frowned at the intermittent and most unjustifiable attacks on the National Chairman who have maintained unblemished records since joining active politics and has tirelessly ensured internal democratic norms are entrenched in the party since his assumption of office. The State Chairmen observed that what the Deputy National Chairman, North have done is tantamount to creating disaffection amongst party faithfuls. This they said, is very offensive to the constitution of our great party. The Chairmen thereafter passed a vote of confidence on the National Chairman and vowed to resist any attempt to blackmail him out of office for standing against injustice that has hitherto been the hallmark of his predecessor which was the only legacy he left behind. The statement was jointly signed by the six (6) South – South APC State Chairmen namely, Hon. Ini T. Okopido – State Chairman , Akwa – Ibom State, Hon. Amos Lalabunafa – State Chairman , Bayelsa State, Mr. John Ochalla – State Chairman , Cross Rivers State, Prophet Jones Ode Erue – State Chairman , Delta State. Barr. Aslem U. Ojezua – State Chairman , Edo State, Hon. Ojukaye Flag Amachree – State Chairman, Rivers State. Also, rising in defense of the national chairman, the APC Middle Belt Vanguard chided Senator Shuaibu alleging that he conferred on himself the powers of the party’s highest decision making body, NEC even as it called for the national officer to apologise to the Comrade Oshiomhole within 14 days or face the consequences of his actions. In a statement jointly signed by the group’s president and secretary, Comrade Musa Ohimini Alechenu and Meliga Godwin respectively, it said: “Our attention has been drawn to a statement made by the Deputy National Chairman North of the APC, Senator Lawali Shuaibu, who has arrogated himself, the powers of the NEC of our great party, by calling for the resignation of our indefatigable national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “While we want to state that those words were personal to Senator Shuaibu and not the opinion of members of the NWC or NEC and of course majority of our party members, we called on senator Shuaibu to apologise to the leader ship of this party in the next 14 days or enjoy the wrath of the party. “It is on record that people like Shuaibu are not comfortable with the kind of discipline the National Chairman is instilling in the affairs of the APC since he assumed office in June 2019. In every society reforms don’t come easy and it is very unfortunate that at this point in time, Senator Shuaibu and his co-travellers will expect business as usual. “It may suffice you to note that the introduction of direct primaries by the Oshiomhole led NWC has helped in bringing the people closer to the party and it was evident in the total support our President, Muhammadu Buhari enjoyed across the country in the last general election. “Besides, we want to remind Senator Shuaibu that most of the issues we had in some states were crisis that existed before Oshiomhole took over as National Chairman of our great party, particularly in Imo and Rivers State. This is just a case of calling a dog a bad name so you can hang it. It is on record that Oshiomhole led NWC inherited several crisis in the party and It is only his traducers who will be blind to those facts. “Therefore, we pass a vote of Confidence on the National chairman of our great party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and we advise those feeling crisis in the party to desist from it as we are solidly behind the leadership of this great party. “We admonish Senator Shauibu to settle his personal issues with his boss and stop being a willing tool being used to cause disaffection in the party.” Even though the party and the national chairman have not officially responded, it is believed that alignments, counter-alignments and high wired negotiations are going on to ensure that the issue does not boil over and cooler heads prevail. The party must however realise that the expectation of Nigerians are at an all-time high as the ‘Next Level’ train kicks off. The faith that was put in the party via the votes during the last election must not be taken for granted. It is high time they put their acts together, solve naughty issues that has so far bedeviled it and forge a unified front in delivering the much needed dividends of democracy to the generality of the populace in the country. There is certainly no time to waste.