The Joint Union of Ministry of Defence (MOD) has accused the National Hospital, Abuja, of abandonment and negligence of one of its staff, Mohammed Adoga, who sustained multiple fractures from an accident while on his way home from work. Speaking during a protest at the National Hospital the president, Joint Council, MOD, Comrade Joel Didam said the union has lost three of his members this year due to the negligence of duty by the management and personnel of the hospital. Didam explained that Adoga sustained the multiple fractures while on his way home from work last Thursday. He alleged that the Adoga was neglected by the personnel at the emergency unit of the hospital till date. “We have lost three of our staff due to negligence by the management and personnel of National Hospital and we cannot afford to lose any of our colleagues anymore. “We are here to ask them why the treatment is taking so long. I called the public relations officer of the hospital and till date, he did nothing. “It is so sad that if as a government official our members are treated this way, what will be the hope of the common man,” he said. He said the management has explained to them that he will be operated on in line with international best practices. He added that until he gets better they are yet to be convinced by the assurances given to them by the hospital management. He, however, called on the federal government to overhaul the activities of the National Hospital and the nation’s health sector as a whole. Didam decried that the nation is losing billions of naira to medical tourism. “It is bad if Nigerians cannot get quality and accessible health care,” he said. Didam said Nigerians are also complaining of the alleged poor services the hospital is rendering because people are dying daily at the health facility. “Emergency here is not treated as an emergency, communication between patient and family members is also poor, this is sad,” he added. Responding to the protesters, the chief public relations officer, National Hospital, Hajia Rabiat Bello said they have come to a consensus with the union. She said the matter will be resolved soon. She, however, added that the patient is recuperating.