As part of efforts to consolidate federal government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), AgroNigeria, ‘The Voice of Nigeria’s Agriculture, has announced that the organisation in collaboration with other key partners has concluded arrangements for the 2019 Feed Nigeria Summit (FNS), with the theme: “Unlocking Prosperity through Partnership.” Director General of the FNS 2019, Barr. Richard-Mark Mbaram, who disclosed this in a statement issued to journalists in Abuja, said the summit is schedule for 27th and 28th of August 2019 in Abuja and will focus on the narratives critical for unleashing the job creation potentials of the Nigerian agricultural sector. Mbaram explained that the summit will highlight sub-themes that would touch on burning issues like infrastructure, safety, security, science and technology, finance and insurance, communications, nutrition as well as the environment. According to him, “The FNS2019 will feature key narratives around the core theme which basically highlights the need for synergy among actors in the agribusiness ecosystem. “Any informed assessment of the Nigerian agricultural sector at this time will show that those who are really succeeding in business have embraced the culture of partnership”. While insisting that the “partnership ethos” was being leveraged for higher productivity boost in the sector, he said the summit since inception has been consistent in providing an unparalleled platform for stakeholder tracking and enhancement of Nigeria’s efforts at developing a virile agricultural economy. He said, “In 2017, the FNS focused centrally on the Home-Grown School Feeding Programme of the federal government with the primary aim of galvanising Private Sector interest and collaboration in an aspect of the government’s social investment scheme which focused on feeding primary school children across the country. Following resolutions made at the Summit, the HGSFP was circuited to the agricultural value chain and expanded to feed some 7.7 million children in 24 states of the Federation. “The 2018 edition, themed “Consolidating the Growth” was hinged on the need to provide a framework for a flow of concerted support to the private sector in agriculture, to enable them forge ecosystems of resilience around their businesses. If achieved, Nigeria’s ability to maximally harness her strengths in areas of comparative advantage in agriculture would be vouchsafed. Mbaram however, quoted the executive secretary of the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science (NIAS),  Prof Eustace Iyayi,  as saying, “the Feed Nigeria Summit (FNS) is Nigeria’s flagship agricultural sector convocation and has, over the years earned its position as a unique platform which addresses the critical issues concerning the nation’s agro-economy”. He further quoted the managing director of Stallion Group, a major sponsor of FNS 2019, Anant Badjatya, saying, “for Nigeria to meet the economic needs of its vast population, a viable and prosperous agricultural sector is an imperative. “It is the sector that will provide the lion share of the jobs badly needed to power the economy. The Agribusiness space in Nigeria needs to be populated by stakeholders who are willing to collaborate not only rob solve existing problems, but also to take advantage of existing opportunities for increased value provision”. 