The Emir of Birnin-Gwari in Birnin Gwari local government area of Kaduna State, Emir Zubair Jibril Mai-Gwari II, has said that, the armed bandits terrorising his domain are now hungry and easy to defeat with more security efforts. He stated this at his palace, yesterday, when he hosted Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, Ali Aji Janga, who paid a familiarisation and operational visit to the local government area. Armed robbers, kidnappers, cattle rustlers and bandits, who have killed hundreds of people in the area, have, over the years, troubled Birnin-Gwari with attacks. The Emir, who was delighted with the visit of the police commissioner, expressed confidence that, with a more serious operation against the bandits, they would be defeated. He also appealed to the police commissioner to regulate the activities of a group identified as security volunteers, saying that, they are suspected to be informants to the criminals. According to the Emir, “The bandits are only carrying out their operations in secluded areas where there are small market stalls and steal food in order to survive, they are hungry, they don’t have time to kill people again. “If the police should restrategise, little effort would only be required to scrap them all, they don’t have much weapons, they are hiding in obvious hideouts. “The vigilante groups are also very helpful and they are playing very vital roles in the fight against crime in the local government, but the police should look into putting an end to the help of volunteers. “They overreact to situations and cause more damage, the police should seat with them, get the good ones and recruit them to work together with the vigilantes. “We have had a lot of police commissioners in the state, I have worked with about 20 while on throne, we gave them all the support they needed to combat crime in our communities, we also pledge to give you our maximum support.” Emir of Birnin-Gwari said. However, commissioner of police, Janga, assured that, the issue of banditry would soon become an issue of the past in the area, as a simultaneous raid in all the states under armed bandits’ attack, is in the pipeline. He equally assured that his men would chase the bandits into their hideouts in the bush and make them bleed. “The problems of banditry in Birnin Gwari is one among the major problems we have at heart, we would be ready, fully prepared and come to synergise with the vigilante groups and raid their hideouts. “We assure the people of Birnin Gwari that the issue of banditry in the local government will soon become an issue of the past. We will go after them into the bush. We will engage them and blood will flow. The CP, who equally met the Local Government Chairman, Alhaji Garba Gambo Randagi, and leaders of Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), however, solicited the cooperation of the community to enable the police succeed in the war against the bandits.