Ageing Nigerian politicians have been charged to the political space for the younger generation. The appeal was made by the chairman GUO Transport Services Company Limited, Chief Godwin Ubaka Okeke. He said that the time had come for the older politicians to allow the youths to take over the leadership of the country to enable them drive its development. Okeke said that his call was informed by what is now obtainable in other climes. According to him, “we still hear about Coca Cola and other big companies whose founders have long gone and lamented that it is not so in Nigeria hence many businesses have collapsed shortly after the persons with the vision passed away. “ At a press conference to herald his 70th birthday celebration in Awka, Anambra State yesterday, Okeke also  appealed to industrialists and all chief executives officers to hand over their businesses to their children and other Nigerian youths to rise as they would certainly do better. His words: ‘’…before we move into agriculture let us talk about how to empower our youths, because I just talked about that in passing. Let me give you an idea, I am celebrating my 70th birthday. At the age of 70, I believe I have done more than enough for myself. I need to rest, my children, my relations and workers, they are all coming of age, why don’t we start planning on how to hand over to our children. ‘’The problem we have in Nigeria is not trusting our children and not giving them the opportunity to grow. In America, we talk about Rothmans, Lemon, Coca-Cola, Guinness; the people that initiated this companies are far gone. It is their children, their relations, their dedicated workers are the ones that are making the company grow, and these companies are now a family business. ‘’As private people, government, and as a country, we must copy from this; we have to equip our youths, and give them the opportunity. I am now telling everybody, I have done that experiment and it is working; my children are the ones controlling all the business I established. I am there as the chairman, giving them fatherly advice. They have moved my businesses from where I left them to the next stage. They are brilliant and have gone far, they are highly educated, let’s make use of their intelligence,” he said. On the challenges associated with transportation, Okeke who is also the chairman of ANAMMCO Ltd said: ‘’What we are suffering in Nigeria today is a lot of people moving into business especially transportation without proper calculation, without endurance and experience. You see money flowing in, if you don’t know how to control that money, it will disappear. The transport business in Nigeria gave a lot of contact opportunities because banks were seeing us doing good turnover and they were giving us facilities and unfortunately, for some of us, we were not doing proper calculation until the money fizzled away. They used the money to buy properties, take so many titles; some married three to four wives, so the money was lost. So, it is one problem people suffer not only in transportation business but in every other areas. It misled people without proper foundation and without education also.”