In an effort to promote and encourage African start-ups, Google start-up programme, Launchpad Accelerator Africa, has graduated the third set of its mentoring programme. Speaking at the graduation the head of brand and reputation, Google Africa, Mojola Aderemi-Makinde, said the launchpad accelerator program is part of Google’s commitment to build 60 African startups by helping them scale and optimise their products using the best of google. She said, in 2017, Google chief executive officer, Sundai Pichai, was in Nigeria and he made a number of commitments on what Google was going to do in Africa over the next five years. He made a commitment to train 10 million on the part of digital skills, train 10,000 developers, the third commitment was the launchpad accelerator to support 60 startups across the continent within five years and the final one is to commit $20 million to support social enterprises. “We are not just here to make the search engine work but we are here for predominantly two things and that those two things will have to be mutually exclusive. So for us to be on the continent we want to make sure that we are really investing on the continent therefore our strategy is broken into four parts: Access, content, education and revenue,” she said. Giving the keynote address one of the mentors from Africa’s talking, Wiza Jalakasi, congratulated the graduands for solving relevant problems for the continent and building meaningful solutions that have captured local content. In his words he said, “the fact that you made it to launchpad is not an accident, you are here because you deserve to be here and you need to internalise that strength going forward.” The programme which consist 12 startups is a three-month mentoring programme that provides more than $3 million equity-free support to African. It kicked off the first class of Launchpad Accelerator Africa last year and since then, Class 1 and 2 alumni have directly created 132 jobs, raised over $7 million in funding between them, with their products being used by approximately 4.5 million people on the continent. The 12 startups that are part of the program come from various countries across the continent. As they graduated they joined an alumni of 23 startups that have been through the program from Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda and Egypt. The 12 startups include Wella health(Nigeria), 54 gene(Nigeria), Data integrated(Kenya), insta diet(Egypt), Kwara(Kenya), OkHI(Kenya), swipe 2 pay(Uganda), paps(Senegal), scholar x(Nigeria), Tambua health(Kenya), Voyc.Ai(South Africa)Zomila(South Africa).