A soldier and two officers of the Nigeria Civil Defence and Security Corps (NSCDC) were killed on Sunday morning by suspected oil thieves in Gio community of Tai local government area of Rivers State. The Nigerian Army, however, said that its troops killed an illegal oil bunkering kingpin, Korobe Menele Loveday, during the gun battle with the hoodlums in Gio. Meanwhile, residents of the community have deserted their homes for fear of possible arrests following the arrival of soldiers from 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, to search for the killers of the security operatives. LEADERSHIP gathered that the victims were guarding the Trans Niger Delta Line (TNPL) manifold belonging to Shell Petroleum Development Company Limited (SPDC) in Gio when they gunmen attacked them and made away with their rifles. The traditional ruler of Gio, Chief Eric Dooh, who confirmed the incident, said that the gunmen suspected to be illegal oil bunkerers had gone to the manifold known as Gio 2 to siphon oil, but were resisted by the security men guiding the facility. Dooh stated that the gunmen later regrouped and attacked the security personnel. He said: “Some armed men who are suspected to be oil bunkerers had gone to Shell manifold to siphon oil but were resisted by the security personnel leading to the killing of two personnel of the NSCDC and a soldier.” The deputy director, Army Public Relations, Col. Aminu Illiasu, in a statement he issued yesterday, confirmed the murder of the soldier and the NSCDC personnel by the oil thieves. Illiasu, who also confirmed the killing of Loveday, said that intelligence report proved that it was the deceased and his gang that killed the security personnel. He listed the items recovered from the scene in a vehicle as 1 x K2 rifle, 2 x magazines loaded with 52 rounds of 5.56mm, personal effects, one pair of vehicle plate number KRK 95DP RIVERS and some documents. The body and other recovered exhibits have been handed over to the NSCDC Rivers State Command for further action, while troops continue to track the remaining fleeing bandits to face  justice, he said.