The director, Centre for Wetlands and Waste Management Studies,University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Prof. Gabriel Umoh, has called on the federal government to enforce existing environmental protection laws to save the country from consequences of air pollution. Umoh said the federal government should prevail on the National Environmental Standards and Regulation Enforcement Agency(NESREA), mandated to checkmate ecosystem and pollution control to commence the  implementation of all existing environmental laws. Umoh, a professor of Agriculture and Development Economics of the University, stated this on Wednesday while addressing newsmen in Uyo to mark this year’s World Environment Day with the theme “Beat Air Pollution”. He said NESREA which is saddled with the responsibility of protecting the environment was established by the government with enough laws and guidelines to control environmental hazards. Umoh noted that the laws and guidelines if genuinely implemented would serve as a framework against air pollution but lamented that various regulatory agencies have not shown enough commitment towards implementating the laws for the safety of Nigerians. “In Nigeria, there are laws and guidelines that are expected to be a framework for guiding against air pollution. For Instance, the NESREA has been established with the national guidelines and standards for environmental pollution and control in Nigeria” he said. “Section 4.14 of the National policy on environment makes for the complete reduction of gas flaring and green house gases in line with the policy. This policy is in place but till now, the oil and gas industries are still flaring gas”. “This calls for immediate steps to be taken by the regulatory authorities to bring the operators of Oil and Gas sector to conform and comply with the policy. “Some of these operators are multinational companies operating in other countries and they obey the rules and laws in those countries. But I think the problem here in Nigeria is enforcement. And this should serve as wake up call on NESREA and other agencies to effectively enforce the existing laws”. He called on the state government and corporate organisations in the country to support the centre which he said has yet to come up with the requisite technology that would move waste management from the level of collection, conveyance and dumping at dumpsites to such a way that they don’t end up polluting the environment the more. “The research centre like Wetlands and Waste Management Studies Centre University of Uyo, needs the support of not only the University authority but government and development partners in collaborations with other agencies, so that we can come up with technology that can reduce the waste and air pollution that we have in Nigeria”.