…a tropical paradise… in British suburbia! Couple spend £12,000 transforming their ‘boring’ back garden into a haven for exotic palm trees and fish From the roadside this suburban semi-detached home doesn’t look anything out of the ordinary – but a peek through the keyhole and into the back garden reveals a secret tropical paradise. David and Sandra Traynor moved into their £180,000 semi-detached house in Stourport, Worcestershire in March 2016, but thought their rear garden was bland and saw an opportunity to use their green fingers. Just two-and-a-half years and £12,000 later, the couple have turned their generic garden into their own ‘personal fantasy’ and haven for exotic palm trees and fish. The garden’s centre piece is a dramatic pond containing 40 exotic Koi carp alongside its 80 palm trees and other tropical-style plants. The couple, both 56, revealed how neighbours initially believed them to be ‘a bit bonkers’ when they first revealed their plans for the tropical garden, but that they now call the finished product ‘marvellous’. Speaking about how they wanted the garden to be an ‘immersive experience’, the couple said visitors enjoyed walking down narrow pathways while brushing past giant plants. David, a photographer and designer, said: ‘I’ve always been into gardening but we’ve never had a proper space to do what we wanted. We were really excited about moving into a house with such a blank slate for the garden. ‘I worked out a detailed plan of the garden before we moved in. It’s taken us about two years to transform it from just a lawn. Our neighbours thought we were a bit bonkers when we started. Now they think it’s marvellous. ‘The whole point was to put something together that was our personal fantasy. When people see the garden for the first time they usually say “oh my god”. ‘Our aim was to create our own tropical styled fantasy, but to make it look and feel almost as natural as a tropical forest clearing but in the heart of Worcestershire. David and Sandra, a credit controller, used the soil left over from excavating the pond area to build a second tier layer, and the couple said that the garden is now so full they do not have space for any additional planting. David said: ‘We managed to get all of the main elements together in about three months. ‘Three years on, the garden is now full to bursting with tropical plants from all across the world, all tightly planted to create a dense layered and natural feel. ‘We wanted our tropical garden to be an immersive experience, where we walk down narrow pathways, whilst brushing past plants that dwarf us. ‘The main advantage of this style is that even in the depths of winter, it is always lush and verdant. Couple this with the fact that we hardly have to do any weeding, and you have inner view the perfect all year garden. ‘It can be a lot of work, but it is definitely worth it, as we both spend more time in the garden than in the house. Anything that doesn’t normally grow here in the Midlands then we want to do it.’  Source: dailymail.co.uk   