Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba state today Felicitated with Muslims and the people of Taraba state on the occasion of the holy month of Eid-El-Fitr, Ishaku in his good will message call on the Muslims in the state and the nation at large to embrace peace and love one another to complete the teachings of the holy Koran. In a statement sign by the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on media and publicity Bala Dan Habu quotes the governor by further urging the Muslim faithful to continue to imbibe at all times the virtues imbedded in the act of self-denial and discipline associated with Ramadan, even after the end of the one-month of abstention from food and other worldly desires. “I congratulate with the Muslim Ummah in the State and indeed the Nation on the successful conclusion of one of the important pillars of Islam which is the obligatory fasting by all practicing Muslims in the holy month of Ramadan as enjoined in Quran (2:185). “I therefore congratulate you all for being able to perform this central function of your faith. May I however enjoin Muslims to continue to imbibe at all times the virtues imbedded in the act of self-denial and discipline associated with Ramadan, even after the end of the one-month of abstention from food and other worldly desires. Ramadan therefore, symbolizes equality of all humanity, whether rich or poor, Muslims and non-Muslims alike. “I am aware that throughout the period of Fasting, the Muslim Ummah have also been engaged in fervent prayers for the State and Nation, self-examination, religious revival and giving of alms to the poor in the society, as well as focusing on the family and the community in which they live. I urge you all to continue in this spirit for the renewal of our society. “May I also encourage the Ummah to emulate the life of the Holy Prophet Mohammed, who never discriminated against others, but showed tolerance and love for others. I urge you all not to only continue in prayers for peace, understanding and brotherliness in the State, but also show it in your attitude to friends and neighbors at all times. “Once again, may I use the occasion of Sallah celebration to urge the citizens of the State to show greater tolerance for one another, as government on its part is working round the clock to ensure that permanent peace is restored all over the State. “My administration is determined more than ever before to carry all Tarabans along, irrespective of partisan political leanings, in its agenda to fast track development to all nooks and crannies of the State. Finally, as you celebrate Eid-el- fitr, may Allah in His infinite mercy. Meanwhile LEADERSHIP monitored the peaceful morning prayers of all Muslims in Jalingo the state capital to observe the beginning of the celebration of the holly month. The Permanent secretary bureau for local government and Chieftaincy Affairs Taraba state government Bello Yero who spoke to LEADERSHIP at the Palace of the Emir of Jalingo praise the state and federal government for providing a conducive atmosphere for the Muslim Ummah to celebrate the holly month.