The outgoing Chief Medical Director of Federal Medical Center Birnin Kebbi,  Dr. Abdullahi Ibrahim has urged medical practitioners and personnel to always abide by medical ethics of the profession when dealing with patients. The outgoing CMD gave the advice while fielding questions from newsmen at a send forth organized in his honor by staff and management of Federal Medical Center, Birnin Kebbi at the weekend. He said medical profession was a noble profession guided by principles and ethics in every aspect especially when dealing or treating a patient. “When dealing with patients, medical practitioners should abide by medical ethics, the ethics of our profession which simply says treat your patient right with sympathy no matter who he is “”, he said. While thanking Dr. Ramatu Hassan former CMD of FMC Birnin Kebbi and the entire staff and management of FMC, Birnin Kebbi for their support and encouragement during his tenure in office also outlined a number of achievements recorded by the hospital under his watch. He said the hospital has recorded tremendous infrastructural development, increased bed capacity for patients from 150 to 350, additional consultants from mere 3 to 44, capacity building training of staff within and outside the country for specialization. He added that the hospital today could train doctors to the level of consultants in many departments such ad Opthalmology, surgery, O&G and family medicine among others. Dr.Ibrahim also opined that he wants the healthcare system of Nigeria to embrace the universal health coverage so that the primary healthcare would be well developed to reduce the burden at the tertiary health centers in such a way that cases such as malaria, diarrhea can be treated at the primary health centers not tertiary. Earlier in his address, the Chairman Board Management of FMC Birnin Kebbi, Prince Abdulmalik Afegbua commended the Dr.Ibrahim for the achievements recorded in the hospital and that the reconstituted board management comprises of seasoned administrators who are determined to uplift the health sector in the state. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu was represented at the occasion by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Babale Umar. 