Children in Nigeria are celebrated annually on May 27, the day set aside globally as Children’s Day.  This year was no different as primary and secondary schools were closed to mark the day and various fun spots organised activities for privileged children to enjoy the day.  But what about the vulnerable children located across the country? In this regard, Chi Limited, under the auspices of the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation, chose to take the celebration to children in the IDP camp located in Bogije community, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos. Through their leading dairy brand, Hollandia, the company spent the day partying with children and donating some of their dairy products to them. Although the event was slated to commence at 10 am, some parents had started bringing their children  in as early as 8 am.  Bogije community literally came alive that Monday morning with the indigenes expressing their excitement at the sight of visitors to their otherwise sleepy community. Initially, 300 children were targeted for the intervention but by the time the event fully kicked off at 11 am, there were well over 500 children present.  However, there was enough food, drinks and gifts pack to go round. Speaking during the visit, the Managing Director CHI Ltd, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, represented by the Head of Administration, Mr. Ebere Osunkwo, stated that as a socially responsible company, the company was naturally passionate about child nutrition. Taking into cognizance the unsatisfactory situation with child nutrition nationally and globally, the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation was initiated as a vehicle for making its own contribution towards reducing the spiraling number of cases of hunger and malnutrition amongst children. He added that the Bogije IDP camp visit marked a notable milestone in the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation’s drive towards alleviating child hunger and malnutrition. He said: “Many children have found themselves in certain adverse conditions due to no fault of theirs. When you think of these children in the IDP camps, you can imagine how many go to bed hungry every single night. Even when they get to eat, how nutritious is the food they consume? So we thought to ourselves, what better way to identify with them than on their day. This is why we chose to celebrate the Children’s Day and World Nutrition Day with them and at least put smiles on their faces. Speaking further, he said: “We are in a world marked with extreme inequality.  This has brought along malnutrition and hunger.  Through the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation, we are trying in our little way to alleviate the suffering of few.  This is deeply entrenched in our company’s core values. “We are here today to share your frustrations, share your pains and most especially your joys.  We are here to show you that there is still hope.  Please, be strengthened by the fact that our commitment to this cause is real”, Osunkwor added. He also disclosed that the initiative will be a continuous one, that will in due course be taken to other IDP communities around the country. The Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation chose Children’s Day, marked every May 27, as well as the World Nutrition Day, which comes up every May 28, to celebrate with the children as both days are of great importance. Proceedings at the Hollandia IDP Camp visit were interpreted in Yoruba and Hausa languages because of the concentration of people from Northern and Western Nigeria present. There were also dance competitions for different age categories and winners emerged in the various categories. One of recipients of Hollandia’s goodwill was six-year-old Rahmat Yusuf.  She said she was very happy about the gifts from Hollandia.  “I like yoghurt very much so I am happy that I have yoghurt now. I will share it with my sister and brother”, she said. Responding on behalf of the community, Chief Tajudeen Oniwolu, the Baale of the Bogije Oniwonlu Estate, expressed his gratitude and joy at the event which he described as auspicious. He said: “I am very grateful to the management of CHI Ltd for this special visit and the donation of their products to the children today being Children’s Day. It is obvious for all to see that the children are very happy and as the Baale of this community, this really gladdens my heart. I call on other companies to emulate this kind gesture. I also beckon on CHI Ltd to continue with this very laudable initiative.” Hollandia collaborated with the Web of Hearts Foundation for the Children’s Day IDP visit. The Web of Hearts Foundation is a non-profit organization which caters for returnees and IDPs. Commenting on the initiative, Mrs. Regina Ayomanor, Project Coordinator, Web of Hearts Foundation said: “As seen on the faces of the children, we are indeed happy and grateful to Hollandia for this act of kindness to the IDP children in this community. It is true that children ought to live up to their dreams, but some of these children have no food, not to talk of a future. We say a big thank you to Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation for the huge impact they have made today and look forward to more partnerships with them in the future.” Believing that every child has the right to good nutrition, Hollandia, the leading dairy brand in Nigeria from the stables of CHI Limited, has over the years been involved in activities aimed at providing food for disadvantaged children through the Hollandia No Kid Hungry Foundation. According to UNICEF, about 2.5 million Nigerian children suffer from severe acute malnutrition. The report further states that Nigeria has the second highest number of stunted children in the world, mostly resulting from child malnutrition and hunger.  World Nutrition Day is marked on May 28. Being a dairy brand loved by children in households across Nigeria, the Hollandia brand is passionate about children and views these facts as further impetus to step up the battle against hunger and malnutrition among Nigerian children.