The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, denied nursing any plans to stage a protest if the election petition tribunal rules against him and his party over their demand on Independent National Electoral Commission to present its electronic server with which it allegedly transmitted results of the presidential election. Atiku stated this while reacting to reports that he was planning to stage a protest. The former president is contesting the result of the presidential election which declared President Muhmmadu Buhari as winner at the Tribunal.  Faulting the results declared by INEC, Atiku had at the tribunal asked the electoral commission to make available the electronic server. But INEC at the tribunal reiterated its earlier statement that there was no electronic server for the elections. But denying claims that he would stage a protest if the tribunal does not rule in his favour on the matter, Atiku said the statement is the handiwork of mischief makers who want to mar his pro-democratic record and lay the ground work for their threatened actions against him on false charges of being a threat to national security. The former vice president in a statement signed by his media aide, Paul Ibe, said “Our attention has been drawn to a statement circulating in a section of the media, to the effect that Atiku Abubakar, Presidential candidate of PDP in the 2019 presidential election and Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007 plans to lead a street protest in the event that the election petition tribunal rules against him and his party on the issue of a server for the Independent National Electoral Commission. “I wish to emphatically state that such a statement did not emanate from Atiku Abubakar or his privies. It is the work of mischief makers who want to mar his spotless pro-democratic record and lay the ground work for their threatened actions against him on false charges of being a threat to national security. “For the avoidance of doubt, Atiku Abubakar believes in the Rule of Law and in the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In his almost four decades in politics, he has never taken action or spoken words against democracy and will not start now. “Atiku Abubakar and his team have confidence in God and thus call on those bent on mischief to have the fear of God and retrace their steps. Democracy has come to stay in Nigeria. “The culture of fear being created now cannot rein in our democracy. Nigeria and Nigerians have a consistent history of outlasting tyranny and will continue to do so by the grace of God,” the statement said.