Despite the tough operating business environment in 2018, Eterna Plc has posted a healthy balance sheet and impressive reward in term of dividend payout to its shareholders. The company said that it is on course with its five-year strategic plan, which is designed to take the company to higher levels of success. Recently, the company unveiled its five-year strategic plan designed to place it on another growth phase. Eterna plans to increase the number of its petrol stations in Nigeria to 200, as well as acquire upstream oil and gas assets before 2025, which would boost the company’s operation within the country and enhance its brand equity. Meanwhile, at the company’s 26th annual general meeting recently held in Lagos, the company’s shareholders commended the performance of the company and payment of a total dividend of N326.036 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. At the AGM, shareholders’ approval the dividend, representing 25 kobo per ordinary share. They were excited by the company’s ability to maintain impressive performance, record growth, and declare dividends in spite of negative operating conditions at a time most quoted companies could not live up to these expectations. According to shareholders, “We are impressed with the record performance and the balance sheet. We are indeed happy that Eterna is paying dividend amid the tough challenges facing downstream operators in this country. It shows that the board and management of the company hold every shareholder in high esteem.” Addressing shareholders at the AGM, chairman of Eterna, Alhaji Lamis Dikko, said that “For the most of 2018, the petroleum industry’s primary actor continued to interfere in determining market prices for regulated and unregulated petroleum products. This interference with the attendant advantage that the prime actor has over other market players led to unpredictability in the market and shifting of entrepreneurship in the downstream sector of the oil and gas industry.” He explained that the company achieved consolidated operating revenue of N251.8 billion in 2018 in comparison with N173 billion in 2017, representing an increase of 45.57 per cent. “The gross profit however decreased by 27 per cent. This was primarily due to the high cost of doing business in Nigeria, unprecedented high cost of landing petroleum products and thinning margins on our product lines. Profit – before – tax declined by 29 per cent reflective of the reduced margins and increased cost of operations. “In view of the company’s performance in the year under review the board recommended a dividend of 25 kobo per ordinary share. The proposed dividend amounts to N326.036 million. We remain appreciative of your trust in our ability to keep the promises that we have made to you,” he said. The chairman of the company, stated that “We are on course with our five-year strategic plan, designed to take our company to higher levels of success. As part of executing the plan, we acquired 14 additional retail outlets in 2018. We are consistently measuring our performance against set targets and the board is providing oversight to ensure that management delivers on the plans.” our shareholders. “We will continue to pursue promising opportunities that we see and position ourselves for growth, knowing that with your support, we can surmount all obstacles and achieve our set objectives.” Also, the company said that it would continue to ensure that its products are the best available in the market using modern and efficient manufacturing processes, continues to invest in research and development. Speaking at the event, the managing director and chief executive officer, Eterna Plc, Mahmud Tukur, said the company remains resolute and not guilty of the contraction it was accused of, adding that 2018 was a difficult year even with 2019 still looking bleak for the oil and gas industry.