Elfin Angela-Catherine Arebun is the head of emerging brand The Official Bright Beginnings Place (TOBB Place). In this interview with MILLICENT AREBUN ONUOHA, she speaks on the helplessness of Nigerian creatives in the face of design theft or piracy, emotional branding and the double-edged sword of the ongoing made-in-Nigeria trend. The journey so far. I am an operations expert with a degree in Business Administration of the University of Benin. I have always been fascinated with the inner workings or behind-the scene work that goes on before an event or clothing. TOBB Place was founded in 2014 to satisfy my burning desire to merge my love for fashion and events with my desire to build a business dynasty that would serve as an aid in my financial security. I started with the events arm of the business in the last quarter of 2017 and went full fledged in 2018. I formally launched my fashion ready-to-wear label full time early this year and the response has been amazing. TOBB company offers event management services through one of its sub-brands and majors in fashion through the stylebybbc brand.  About your brand Stylebybbc offers contemporary bespoke fashion design services to upwardly mobile and working-class ladies, our clothing line constantly evolves to appeal to the taste of our customers. One factor that has helped us stand out is our unique approach to fashion design, which comes from a timeless perspective.  How do you keep and retain your edge in the competitive market of the country especially Lagos? With a very low barrier to entry, the fashion industry has become extremely fragmented. However, what has helped us as a brand is our customer-centric approach to our services. To us the age-old catch phrase of “the customer is king” is not a cliché but a sacrosanct rule we live by. We aim to surpass our clients’ style expectations to the extent that they would have no choice but to come back for more and even refer us to all and sundry.  The reception so far. The reception so far has been so amazing. I sometimes ask myself why I didn’t start earlier. So far we have surpassed our target sales for the gestation period of the business and have had to produce far more than we bargained for. We have had almost overwhelming patronage from close colleagues, family, friends and referrals. We hope to take it beyond this circle and international. Most pressing challenges you have faced as a fashion designer . For us, the most pressing challenge we’ve had is in developing a road to market strategy beyond the confines of family and friends. Also shipping to our international clients and delivery logistics in Nigeria has been a trial. How has the rave of #MadeinNigerian goods affected your business? There has been an increasing adoption of made in Nigeria fashion products among consumers in Nigeria. This trend has been a double-edged sword; It has helped in the acceptance of our products among our customers, but it has also increased competition with local fashion designers. In all the rave of MIN goods has been good for our business as the demand for African prints fashion attires falls into one of our niche categories. What is the place of social media in your marketing/design scheme? The importance of social media cannot be over or underemphasized in the place of any business in today’s world. Personally, social media has been an excellent tool for brand awareness and creating engagement with our customers. It has also served as a handy marketing tool and visual online shop for us directly connecting us to clients and providing invaluable feedback for my brand.  What’s your opinion on design theft in Nigeria in line with the increasing social media wars by colleagues in the creatives world over it? In advanced countries with strong institutions, the issue is less of a concern due to patents and copyright laws. But in Nigeria, it is very much an issue because there is little or no enforcement of copyright laws. There is literally no way to combat it legally for fashion designers in Nigeria, as there is little or nothing they can do to protect their designs from being stolen. The best combative approach to design theft in my opinion would be to build an emotional connection with customers around the brand itself not just the products. Upcoming projects. For the next half of the year we aim to debut our second collection look book and expand our stocklists in Nigerian and abroad. Advice to emerging fashion designers. Most young fashion designers go into the profession with a lot of passion but a low understanding of business. My advice for young designers would be to balance their passion with a strong understanding of business and marketing. They must think of fashion as a business and therefore must have a business and marketing plan. What is fashion to you? Fashion to me is the art creative self-expression. Beauty secrets and routine. I am very lazy when it comes to cosmetics and beauty routine. I barely have enough time left in a day after my combining my nine to five and business that I just fall asleep. Hence, my beauty routine consistently comprises of soap and water during bath time and moisturising immediately after. Fashion items you will go back home for, if forgotten? My earrings always, I would never go anywhere without them.      