Former President Goodluck Jonathan’s aide, Reno Omokri, has picked holes in the criticism of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) of President Muhammadu Buhari’s attendance of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) summit a day after he was inaugurated into office for a second term. On his Twitter handle, @renoomokri,  yesterday, Omokri declared that it was wrong for CAN to condemn President Buhari when former Presidents Goodluck Jonathan and Olusegun Obasanjo attended the same OIC summit in the past, even as Christians. The tweet read: “It is wrong for CAN to condemn @MBuhari for attending the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation meeting. Ex-Presidents Jonathan and Obasanjo are Christians and both of them attended OIC meetings. I don’t like OIC. But I accept that Nigeria is multi-religious.” At the weekend, CAN raised constitutional concerns about the recent representation of Nigeria by Buhari at an OIC summit. In a statement issued by CAN president,  Rev Samson Ayokunle, through his special assistant, Media and Communications, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, the group condemned what it called attempts to force-foot Nigeria, a constitutionally secular state, into a purely Islamic association. The group noted that OIC prides itself as “the collective voice of the Muslim world” and works to “safeguard and protect the interests of the Muslim world in the spirit of promoting international peace and harmony”, frowning that it was the first assignment of Buhari after being sworn-in for a second term. “We wonder if the president is ready to attend the meeting of the World Council of Churches or be asking the vice president to represent him whenever the members meet”, Ayokunle said in the statement. The Christian body also commented on the alleged ‘Fulanisation’ agenda in Nigeria and indeed West Africa and counselled the federal government against ignoring the warnings from former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, Pastor Tunde Bakare, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, among others on the issue. Meanwhile, a pro-Muslim group has fired back at CAN, saying those criticising Buhari for attending the OIC summit “are in urgent need of anti-Islamaphobia vaccine.” The group, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) said that Obasanjo crossed the red line for accusing the president of ‘Fulanisation’ and Islamisation agenda.