The raging war of words among leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to be over. Three days after the party’s ex-chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, blamed his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for the fresh crisis in the APC, the party’s national secretariat yesterday took him to the cleaner on his claims. Last Sunday, Odigie-Oyegun had accused Oshiomhole of lacking the capacity to manage a 21st Century political party like the APC. But in response to Odigie=Oyegun’s attack on the incumbent APC chairman, the party insisted that the former chairman should instead be responsible for the party’s crisis because of his lacklustre attitude to enforcing discipline in the APC. The party claimed that Oyegun lacked the courage required to confront the pockets of party stalwarts who could not operate within set rules thereby creating the problems for the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who tackled Odigie-Oyegun over his outburst on Oshiomhole, asked the ex-chairman and his co-travellers, who are no longer comfortable with the current rules of political engagements to join the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Issa-Onilu said that both the former chairman and the current deputy national chairman, Senator Lawal Shuaibu, were the architects of the current widespread indiscipline across the party ranks. He said that the duo cannot absolve themselves of the lack of respect for party supremacy as witnessed in the emergence of the 8th National Assembly leadership and the APC overall inability to align the varying interests of the legacy parties which formed the ruling party in 2014. According to Issa-Onilu, under the Odigie-Oyegun leadership of the APC, members merely saw the party as a vehicle for acquiring political offices, maintaining that those who were not comfortable with the ongoing reforms in the party were free to join the PDP and other opposition parties. Issa-Onilu said: “Let me agree that the NWC that led the party into the 2015 elections and continued till June 2018 did nothing different from what you would find in the PDP. It was a period the party was seen as a mere vehicle to attaining political office. The system accommodated impunity as certain members appeared to be superior to the party. Their interests were far more important than the collective interests of the APC, even when most times such interests were at variance with the ideals the party stand for. “You would recall that it was under that leadership that some impudent members of APC called the bluff of the party by imposing themselves on the National Assembly as leaders contrary to the position of the party. Where was the party? Where was the discipline when this happened? “It would be difficult to calculate what the lack of courage to assert the party supremacy cost the APC over that period. The consequences of the inaction of the party were unimaginable. We all saw the consequences on governance as the National Assembly practically held our government to ransom. “The impunity, which President Muhammadu Buhari has rightly described as lack of patriotism, constituted an unfortunate hindrance to the smooth running of government. “The leadership under Chief Odigie-Oyegun, with due respect to him, condoned all sorts of acts of indiscipline from certain members. It is not surprising that the current NWC inherited such a huge mess, where the party was struggling to differentiate itself from the delinquent PDP,” he said.