President Muhammadu Buhari has  promised to continue to provide adequate security for residents of the Federal Capital Territory despite their not voting for him in the 2019 presidential election. The President stated this while receiving residents of the city led to by the Permanent Secretary of the FCT, Christian Ohaa who paid him a Sallah homage at the presidential villa, Abuja. Speaking at the brief event, President Buhari explained that he did not have an option but to secure Abuja which provides himself, Vice President Osinbajo the necessary security. Buhari who also spoke jockularly said ”I have just spoken to the senator on my left (Philip Aduda) and I told him that his constituency did not vote for me. So I was very pleased that when they made the arrangement they put him very far way from me.” According to the President, he presently has the constituency results from Abuja on how the residents voted in the last general elections. ”I have all the results of all constituencies. I am not threatening FCT because to make FCT secure is to make myself secure and the Vice President. I think they are a necessary evil that was why they decided to vote for PDP, ” he added. The President also appealed to official under his administration show exemplary leadership that will not the government unpopular. ”I appeal to you to remain exemplary so that those under you will know that the country is doing very well. If you break down and complain, the impact will reverberate all over and then government will not be popular and whatever efforts we are making will not be appreciated.” President Buhari said he was happy that a lot of Nigerians voted for him and sympathized with his political experiences beginning from 2003 and 2019, a period which he even when up to Supreme Court to challenge the outcomes of the election. ”I thank you very much for those of you who suffered very much to support me. And I congratulate you for being happy that I made it and I assure you that I will continue to do my best in spite of the toughness of my neighbours’’.  ”During my long journey to this place, 2003, 2007, 2011, those were interesting political developments that enabled me visit all the local governments in this country, all 774 local governments.  ”First port of call whenever I visit any local government was to visit the community leader for understanding and support. I am very pleased that Nigerians understand me that although I was a governor, minister of petroleum and one time head of state, people know I don’t have a lot of money to give, ” he added.