The founder and chairman emeritus of Daar Communications Plc, High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, yesterday called for the removal of director general of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) Ishaq Modibbo Kawu from office. Dokpesi who stated this at a press conference said the federal government should remove Kawu in the collective interest of the nation’s broadcast industry. The Daar chairman accused Kawu of high-handedness and plotting to gag privately-owned broadcast media organisations in the country. Lamenting that Daar Communications Group has been under siege in recent times, Dokpesi said the company’s ordeal is linked to its decision to side with the people of Nigeria irrespective of the party in power. Dokpesi further dismissed allegations of a N500 million debt to the NBC as baseless. He said Daar Communications has been meeting its financial obligations to NBC. He said that government-owned media houses have failed to remit their dues as at when due. He stated this before leading his management staff on a protest to the National Assembly, NBC and Federal Ministry of Information. “Ishaq Moddibo Kawu, was dragged to court by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, on a 12-count-charge bordering on fraud in the digital switchover project of the federal government and members of his management at NBC have testified against him openly in court. “Can this man remain independent of external and clandestine influences? Can the scandal he is embroiled in be used to influence his performance as a regulator? Is it possible that he will go the extra mile over and beyond the powers of the NBC to gain favour from politicians and powers who may have influence on whether to retain him as DG and offer him a soft landing on the charges before him? Is he a fit and proper person with the interest of the industry at heart to lead the regulatory body? “He must know that the right thing for him to do is to step down from the leadership of the NBC at least until such a time that he is acquitted of the charges against him. Do I need to tell him the right thing to do? Can the broadcasters he is regulating freely raise these issues against him as a public figure? I make bold to unequivocally call on the Federal Government of Nigeria to immediately relieve him of his duty at the NBC to allow the industry to breathe fresh air,” Dokpesi said. He noted that his ordeal in the hands of the NBC boss is linked to his political affiliation to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He continued: “Every broadcast which appears to them to offer a dissenting perspective to the position of government is reprehended as a threat to national interest. Every reference and reportage from various sections of the country concerning injustice, inequality and iniquity is reprehended as a threat to national security. “If we are critical of this administration’s management of the economy, it is because our editorial board has reviewed the economic indices and these show that Nigeria is worse off today than it was under previous administrations.”