Toyota Nigeria Limited (TNL) recently introduced the all-new Toyota Rush into the Nigerian market to fulfill customers’ yearnings for a Toyota SUV that would compete with others in that category. Fusing dynamic energy with sharp elegant styling, some salient features fitted in the vehicle cut across the interior, exterior, safety features, performance and specifications. At the interior, there are combination meters where the instrument panel integrates speedometer and tachometer accented by elegant chrome-plated rings. Three-dimensional scales enhance visibility to provide vital driving information at a glance. The multi-information display in the centre of the meters displays fuel efficiency in an intuitive format together with an eco-bar indicator. The Rush has Smart Entry & Start System in such a way that, when carrying the electronic key, all doors can be unlocked by simply pressing the switch in the door handle, and the car started by depressing the brake pedal and pushing the engine switch. Pushing the switch again stops the engine. The air-conditioning system has excellent heating and cooling performance of the auto air-conditioning keeps the interior at a comfortable temperature for enjoyable driving comfort whether it is hot or cold outside. The rear air-conditioner has the rear cooler integrated in the roof further boosts comfort in the rear seats for all occupants to ride in comfort. At the exterior level, some of the unique selling points are Toyota Rush’s bold yet fresh design language that never fails to make an impression; impressive features like projector headlamps, dual-tone grille, LED taillights and more that makes the Rush a head turner and long cabin and robust body to enhance dynamic styling. For total safety, Toyota Rush is fitted with LED headlamps to ensure excellent visibility at night and in low light while helping save power. While backing out of a car park or garage, ultrasonic sensors detect obstacles as the vehicle approaches them and alerts the driver with a buzzer and on the multi-information display. The Rush is equally equipped with SRS driver airbag, SRS front passenger, SRS side airbags (front seats) and SRS curtain shield airbags (front and rear seats). In terms of performance, TNL said the Rush has an all-terrain capability as it is designed to traverse rough roads, the high approach and departure angles enable the Rush to navigate a variety of terrain. The engine incorporates Dual VVT-i (Variable Valve Timing-intelligent) which continuously optimises intake and exhaust valve timing in response to driving conditions to deliver excellent performance in various conditions together with light weight and low friction components that contribute to high combustion and outstanding fuel efficiency. Another useful highlight of the all-new Toyota Rush is the Vehicle Stability Control (VSC). This feature activates when sensors detect conditions likely to cause skidding, it helps prevent front or rear wheel slip by optimally controlling engine power and braking force. Overall length, according to Olawoyin, is 4453mm with overall width and overall height as 1695mm and 1705mm respectively. The minimum ground clearance, however, is 220mm. The engine is 1.5L DOHC/petrol 16valve in line 4cylinder; powertrain is Front Engine Rear Wheel Drive; tyre size is 215/65R16 (mid-grade) 215/60 R17 (High) with seven seats. During its recent launch in the country last, Managing Director of TNL, Kunle Ade-Ojo, had said that the Rush was a response to the yearnings of their teeming customers who had continually sought for a vehicle that would bridge the gap between the upper class SUVs and their salon category. Describing the Rush as a befitting vehicle imbued with the trappings of the Toyota superior quality, Ade-Ojo said the Rush would favourably compete within its segment on the platform of elegance, price and the enviable Toyota family heritage. He said, “A heritage built on trust, the will to continually satisfy customers and customer safety which is paramount. As a corporate and responsive organisation Toyota (Nigeria) Limited will continually strive to yield to the aspirations of our dear customers by enriching our stables with magnificent vehicles, offering attractive variants and surpassing customer expectations.”