Senator-elect Abba Moro will represent Benue South senatorial district in the 9th session of Senate slated for inauguration next week. In this interview with RUTH CHOJI, the former Minister of Interior states that, irrespective of party affiliations, President Buhari should seek help in addressing the country’s myriad of challenges, among other issues. Some Nigerians were surprised when President did not read any inaugural speech when he was sworn in for a second term. Were you also surprised? I’m surprised because it is a tradition of governance for the president to tell Nigerians the direction he is taking them. He finished his first four years. So, Nigerians expect him to tell them what he is going to do in the next four years. The excuse of reserving his speech till Democracy Day is not our tradition. Celebrating democracy is different and it also has its own speech. So, not speaking on the inaugural day is a misplaced priority and I think the president himself knows he has missed the point. I’m also concerned about our borrowing culture because if it is not checked, we might borrow our future away. Nigeria is endowed with both human and natural resources, we must begin to harness what we have. The APC has consistently blamed the past PDP governments for the state of the economy. Do you share in this blame? I think it is ironic that it’s the same case of cattle calling the pot black. Those mouthing the PDP as failure are the same people that used to be in the PDP but left to join the APC today. Governors who have been PDP governors for eight years, speakers for eight years, senators of APC were governors in their state from the PDP but because today they are in the APC they mouth all manner of things. It is just this idea of Nigeria not taking responsibility but dancing round issues by blaming the PDP.  It’s Nigerians that are responsible for what we find ourselves in today. I won’t exonerate PDP but we are all products of the same society.  What is your assessment of the Muhammadu Buhari administration? I think that, comparism might not necessary be the issue now, but if it’s inevitable why not? I can tell you without any fear of contradiction that the administration of Jonathan was far better in terms of addressing issues than the current administration. Everybody has his own style of governance and indicators which they judge themselves on what they have done or not. As at the time we left office, Nigeria was the 26th fastest growing economy and the first in Africa. You can’t take that away from Jonathan. Today, go to any Bureau De Change, you cannot buy dollars for less than N358. The highest during Jonathan was N180. The level of insecurity has intensified because during the Jonathan era, we were talking about Boko Haram in the North-east, it was restricted to a few places. The whole thing about kidnapping then was minimal but now it has exploded. Today, even kidnapping that take place in some villages, they collect N200,000. During Jonathan, the boko haram was decimated to the extent they began to target soft targets, but it has increased to the level that this insurgents now attack military formations. They attack military convoys and have the effrontery to attack formations in broad daylight. Another thing is the way we talk about security situation openly. It’s not supposed to be spoken openly like that on the pages of newspapers, which is why it is secret. You don’t reveal how you plan to confront security challenge to the media. You plan in secret and people will see the result. Not the propaganda that fighting insecurity has become now in Nigeria. It is not fair to the system. Whether I’m in PDP or APC, Nigeria is hurting. This government should not be ashamed of seeking support across party lines because the rain does not fall on one roof alone. Talking about the economy, there are fears that the economy might slide into another recession. Are you satisfied with the way it’s being managed? Many small countries that are endowed with oil are doing better than Nigeria, yet we the Giant of Africa cannot manage our resources well. No country will borrow without strings. They borrow with the expectations that they will get something for their country. Why are we not giving out to others as borrowing? Why are we the ones borrowing and seeking for aids all the time? We will end up as a Banana Republic if care is not taken. Adequate steps must be taken to reduce our consumption and bring it to our level of production or we accelerate growth to meet up with our level of consumption. It all boils down to responsible governance.  What should the government do? It is the responsibility of government to address the various challenges that face the economy. The president must have the courage to pick persons that will help solve the problems, having been empowered by the people and their votes to run this country. It is his responsibility to ensure that the economy is buoyant. World over, people have the impression that Nigeria is richly endowed with human and natural resources. So, managing these resources is our responsibility. This time around, the president must jettison partisan politics to a large extent and pick Nigerians that have the capable expertise to solve our problems. A stitch in time saves nine.  What informed your decision to contest for a seat in the incoming Senate? At a point, it was a very hard decision to take. The outgoing Senator representing Benue South in the 8th Assembly, Senator David Mark was stepping aside, so there was a vacuum which had to be filled. It became necessary for the community to produce somebody to step in his large shoes. After extensive consultations, I picked up the challenge to contest the seat. I had followed Senator Mark all through his political adventure and in following him, I have learnt a lot from him and his activities. As the Director-General of his campaign, I came face to face with the realities of the lives of our people, particularly the approach he undertook for the people regarding their yearnings and aspirations. I came to the conclusion that I was in a good position to take over from him. It was a consensus that I stood a good chance to take over from him. It is also more of delivering service to our people.  Seeing that Senator David Mark has spent 20 years in the Senate, what will you be doing different from what he has done for two decades? Society is dynamic. The needs of the people continue to change. As the society moves on and changes, things change. I’m going there to deliver service to the people on their needs. I will also change with the times as the needs of our people change. Like Albert Einstein said, ‘you cannot do the same thing over and over and expect a different result’. I will move with the tide of the times. We are two different people, so I will use a different approach. As an old politician, I will bring my experience to bear on what I do in the National Assembly with the hope that I can take the people to the next level.  Benue is one of the states that has been bedevilled with insecurity. Are you bothered at all? What is happening in Benue is not quite different from what is happening in most parts of Nigeria. There are certain things that are taken for granted and this is one of them. Our approach to solving security problems has been anchored on punishment. The use of force to engender peace and as we have seen overtime, it was a very daunting challenge. I think that we are not adopting strategies that can help us solve the problem.  If you are given the opportunity to advise the government on how to end these security challenges, what will it be? First and foremost, we must engage the people positively, sensitising them on the need to live in peace. As I do say, the people who perpetrate this heinous crime of killings are not ghost, they are human beings like us. They live among us, dine and wine with us. In a large extent, the people who live with them know them. We cannot foreclose the possibility of foreign elements infiltrating our ranks. But definitely no stranger can walk into any community in Nigeria, cause mayhem and go scot free. If the people are sensitised, they will be able to contain the situation. The Federal Government should develop a strategy that will enhance the capacity of the local community to cooperate as partners with the security agencies. Are you referring to idea of community policing? Yes! All the security agencies have complained of inadequate manpower and so, policing the entire landscape of Nigeria has become a herculean task to the existing security architecture in Nigeria. For us to complement the efforts of the security agencies, we have to develop the concept of community policing by using the local community to partner with the agencies. We must empower the community and teach them how to work in synergy with the police to solve the problem. I think the Nigerian government including the one I participated in has failed to address the root cause of the problem  Let’s talk about your tenure as Minister of Interior, a botched Nigerian Immigration Service recruitment exercise under your stewardship led to loss of lives. Given another opportunity, would you have done things differently? Definitely, I had just said that success begets success, but failure also begets success. Looking back now, there were some things we did that we wouldn’t do now that led to the crises. For instance, several personel posted to various locations didn’t report there that day. So, when crises arose, it was difficult for junior officers to contain the situation. For example, in Lagos, the present NIS Comptroller –General was the supervising immigration officer in that center. When he got to the stadium where the exercise was to take place, he discovered that the place was rowdy and the crowd were too many which could cause problems, and if allowed to go on, things could go bad. He took the decision and made the crowd to disperse, but in Abuja, the National Stadium where it was designated as the venue because it has many entrances, the coordinators only allowed two or three gates to be opened that day and because of the high rate of unemployment, many people turned up to take the test and there was stampede, the rest is history. Given this scenario and another opportunity, we would have taken proactive steps to ensure that the crises were averted.    What are the legacies you left behind in the Ministry of Interior? Our legacies could be found in the various services like Civil Defense, Fire Service, Prison Service and the rest. Before I became a minister, the Federal Fire Service was earmarked to be downgraded to an operational unit station and its equipment ceded to the various state fire services and I said no, it’s not done that way. In countries all over the world, there is a federal fire service, as a matter of fact, it is the first respondent in fire situation or disaster crises. I said no, we must maintain a federal fire service. We went into talks with Lagos and other states and the policy was reversed. We got the Federal Government to approve a fire service code, the first of its kind. It regulates use of electrical equipment and its abuse. This means anytime there is a big structure, the federal fire service must give approval for its safety. We also introduced fire safety alert. Partnering with private sector, the purpose was that at the indication of outbreak of fire, an alarm will be triggered off. This gives some little time for us to get them quickly and contain the situation before any damage will occur because, we were losing precious lives and  billions of naira worth properties to fire outbreak.  Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps is one of the best security outfits in Nigeria today and it is respected nationally and internationally. It has one and the only indoor shooting range in the country and in the whole of West Africa. Before I left office, we had commissioned the third phase of quarters for all officers of Civil Defense. Before I came in, there was no regularisation, yet it was recognised by law. People were there as volunteers, registration has been carried out but the courage to implement the result was not there, but today we have men and women that know that they are legal and competent officers of the corps. Before I came in, the civil defense was confronting bandits with bare hands, but I got approval for them to bear arms. We have a component of arm bearing corps members. Before I came there, they didn’t have an administrative office, but today there is an edifice in that place commissioned by myself before I left office. Now the civil defense corps is very efficient and well respected. I can tell you that the immigration didn’t have a functional office before I became minister, but today I completed the White House they call passport office. I didn’t just construct it but I coerce the service provider to live up to its duty of issuing out passports. Before I left office, under 24-hours, you could acquire a passport.  I don’t know what is happening there now. During my time, we contributed immensely to the volume of foreign direct investments. What you hear today as ‘visa on arrival’ was my initiative. We introduced it and it was when we were introducing a new visa regime that the concept of visa on arrival concept was introduced. It is because bureaucratic tendencies that bedeviled the service tend to delay businessmen and investors from coming to the country to invest. Even the number of foreign workers you bring into the country was anchored on how much you are bringing into the country to invest. So if you are bringing for instance, $1bn, you will be allowed to bring in about ten expatriates without any problem provided you are bringing investment. Besides, we were able to identify some of the problems of infiltration of our country by foreigners without proper documentation. We introduced border patrol guards as an arm of the immigration service. If you go to the prison for instance, we took deliberate efforts to ensure that the prison contain those who are supposed to be there. Before I came there, you will find that somebody will have just family issues over land and a person will be put in prison for years. Even though the prison could take in inmates, we didn’t have the power and authority to release them even when you know that they were there wrongfully. We also felt that congestion was a big challenge in our prison system. We took the challenge to create more accommodation. We discovered that over 42 prisons across the country which construction were awarded in 1981 by the Shagari administration were abandoned all over the place. The irony of it was that, when we reviewed it, it rose up to between N1.6bn to N1.8bn because of time and high cost of things now. We took the challenge and went ahead to construct a few of them like the prison in Nnewi, Koton Karfe and others, I think we did about nine of them. We didn’t have a functional prison in Akwa Ibom, and with partnership with the state government, Akwa-Ibom state medium prison was constructed. Bayelsa didn’t have a prison command at all. Part of the prisons in Rivers state were from Bayelsa state and in partnership with the state government, we were able to construct prison in Bayelsa state. A novel legacy project we undertook is the agreement we signed with the United Kingdom government for prisoner exchange, implying that Nigerians who are serving prison sentence in the UK but desire to complete their sentence here will come to Nigeria to complete their terms because our environment and laws are not the same. At that time, many people were saying, we were doing it because of James Ibori, because he desired to come and complete his term in Nigeria but that wasn’t the reason. We signed that agreement with UK and the concomitant of that agreement is that, we have to build prisons that are comparable in standard to those ones in UK. We proposed to build six in the six geo-political zones. Unfortunately we were able to build only two before our tenure ran out and the two are situated in the North-central. One is in Suleja. The last project that we couldn’t undertake was the automation of the prison system in agreement with Huawei Chinese Company so that even at the headquarters here, you will see what was happening in all the prisons across the country but unfortunately we were not able to complete it. That project has been abandoned just like many others.