My thought roamed in fury when our beloved country is still in the  Shackle’s of a vicious and relentless disease (corruption). Corruption is a poison which has spread like a wild fire  in the mind of wrong people of our beloved country. And it’s relentless  quest to turn our abode(Nigeria) into hell. Why should I clothe this thought When this epidemic has eating deep into the realm of our soul to tweak the crux of hope left in us.the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician’s authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual and their cronies. corrruption hereditary means is so strong that the young Desire to partake in destroying his own mother land. As a pretty girl entices all the sons and daughters of the land, Traps them in her beauty, In no time in love they fall, Forgetting their way and duty to protect the pride of their mother land. They commit sin, but at last find, The cruel witch has made them blind. I also see reason why Mohammad Muzzammil say this  “Their sin’s made them paralysed, They can’t work without bribe, Plight of every field is realised, Takers of it are givers too, scribe, This epidemic is increasing day by day, It end the whole system to changed.” It is indeed the social ills In the annals of mankind, A leech that preys on the weak The poor and the ignorant. It destroy the very core And foundation of society. A malaise, anyone that embraces it Is a minion of darkness an enemy that wrenches you Into pieces. Corruption rules the roost in daily life; Only serves the self, it disregards the needs of others corrupt government is a great evil, it exploits those it should protect Is betrayal and deceit, it is layered in lies and trickery Tyranny in disguise, thievery shielded in darkness corruption putrefies the soul, it is forever an insatiable lust The weed has grown much better than good plants! right on the fertile ground of this nation The roots are stronger, gone too far and wide. It seed of Greed of unlawfuls blocks all progress Sincere, honest and honourables make And skillful ones languish in frustration! Progress of this mother land has been stifled by corruption; The hand is used to get bribes all life-time; The tongue of her own children speaks lies with ease and variety against her. She doesnt know when The time will come to root out corruption. But who among her children will fight this social evil great? The few who try are not perfect at all; The honest ones who try don’t make headway; The beast is live and loitering afree! destroying the strength of the mother The mother has been Just righteous to win over evils! now she see been righteous alone can’t win the evil  It is time to fight corruption in all ways; Perseverance will tilt the balance soon; A lot of sacrifice is essential; I see reason why Dr. A.Celestine Raj Manohar M.D Say “The victory is a priceless gift to man! I can feel the mother enslavement serpentine coils wrap around me, Leaving me with a breath weaker than the other. With dripping fangs that ranged skywards, They inflicted their venom into the mother land,   celestial refuge for change incredibly increase day and night. Paralyzi our mother and reaping us of faith, to believe in one naija. destorying our hope for one day “E go “better. – the mother has lost fertility to feed all her common children. – she has lost so many of her children in the battle to protect her land from been totally  infected by the deadly disease ( corruption ). – she has no power to promise good life for her future generations. – she is struggling to protect her remains from death. – she pray for better Nigeria – she fight the disease ( corruption ) day and night. Today Our great mother ( Nigeria ) call on all her sons and daughters to fight and  say no to corruption. As she believes in her sons and daughters. God bless Nigeria!!!  –  Yake is a public affairs analyst