Contrary to speculations that the 300- level undergraduate of the University of Benin, Christabel Omore Buoro Owoichi committed suicide last week, her mother has dismissed the claims by the school authorities and eyewitnesses.  EMAMEH GABRIEL writes. Days after a 300 -Level Medical  Laboratory undergraduate of the University of Benin, Christabel Omore Buoro Owoichi was said to have committed suicide,  controversy has continued to trail her death. Recall that the lifeless body of Christabel was reportedly found in her hostel room at Newton Street, Ekosodin area of Benin City, after she allegedly took a deadly substance to end her life. After the news emerged, several  eyewitnesses including the school authorities have given conflicting accounts of the cause of her death, a development which her family says is suspicious. Days after her death , an eyewitness had earlier claimed that  she mixed the deadly insecticide popularly called sniper with a sprite drink and reportedly left a suicide note where she stated that she was about taking her life because she allegedly jilted by her  boyfriend. No sooner had that been said, than  another witness who also confirmed the incident, disclosed that  an empty sachet of Klin detergent was found on the spot where her body was discovered. Again, in a social media post by the school (Uniben)  Metro, it was reported that the suicide note, which is already in custody of the police at Ugbowo police station, was addressed to two persons, (names withheld) and the two persons have since  been invited to the police station for questioning. The post claimed that the suicide was not due to relationship problems between the deceased and her boyfriend but rather personal unresolved issues between the two persons the letter was addressed to. UNIBEN Metro reported that, “The letter didn’t state what happened between the two mentioned persons, reason the police have invited them to unravel the reasons behind the deceased’s action” Worried about these conflicting reports, members of the deceased’s  family have not only raised eyebrows over the mysterious death of their daughter but are also questioning the role played by the school’s management. They are strongly alleging that there was something fishy about the claims and counter claims surrounding their daughter’s death, as they are convinced she was murdered thereby,  threatening legal action against the school. The deceased’s mother and a widow, Ms Jecinta Owoicho Bouro who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday via a telephone interview dismissed claims that her beloved daughter took her life. She insisted, “I won’t let them sweep this case of murder under the carpet.  This is a clear case of murder. I suspect a foul play.” According to her, “the school authorities did not inform me about my daughter’s death, neither was I carried along before the decision to carry out an autopsy on her corpse was reached.” She insisted that “something is being concealed from me and the public . As I speak to you, since the incident , my daughter’s roommate has gone into hiding. You needed to see how  jittery she was when I first confronted her to ask what she knew about my child’s death. ‘Take it from me, Christabel’s death is a clear case of murder not suicide. I spoke with my daughter that day before she died. We discussed at length on phone  .in fact, for about five minutes. We discussed about our future and about relocating our family from Lokoja to another place.’ The grieving mother who screamed continiously  revealed that one of her cousins met and spoke with Christabel two hours before she was reported dead. “In fact, the cousin was with her in the afternoon before she left to her room, then by 5pm they called that she killed herself:” In the evening, I tried her number but it was switched off. You know, she and I were very close. So the morning, my parents called me that she was dead that they saw it on the social media.  After a while, my Reverend father also called to confirm the incident. “By noon, I sent one of my Dad’s friends to go and ascertain the authenticity of the story and guess what, he called to confirm my fears. Before I arrived Benin, my husband’s friend went to the  school to make inquires but was turned down as they bluntly told him they had nothing to do with it and directed him to visit the Police Station. “First and foremost, she was a 300 level student and by the school rules she was not entitled to school accommodation. I am still  wondering why the school dissociated itself from her case. By all standards I deserved  to have been  informed about what happened to her before the decision to carry out an autopsy on her was concluded. On the widely reported incident of rape, Christabel’s mother  said,  “ this has no connection with what happened to my daughter. Even if I  will try as much to respect my late daughter’s privacy, the rape narrative does not add up here because the rape case happened two years back and she had since then left her past behind and had moved on.” “What has rape got to do with this again? She asked. “They have the record. I even have the papers with me that the school took her to their clinic. You see, she was raped but then she was in100 level . It was the school that took her to their hospital and all the papers are with me here in Lokoja”, she said. My Daughter Didn’t Take Her Life “First of all, am convinced she did not kill herself because there was nothing wrong with her.  I spoke with her every day and she confided in me . I told her that even if you are writing exams and you do not have anything call me and I will do it immediately. She did not kill herself” I insist. Asked if she was aware that the school was carrying out a psychiatric test on her late daughter, Ms Owoichi who complained bitterly about the way she was treated by the school authority while trying to make findings about the true cause of what happened said, she wasn’t put in the picture before the decision to carry out any test on her corpse. “Yes, if they want to ascertain the psychiatric state I have no issue with that . All I am saying is that I deserve to have been informed.  I was in that school for  24 hours and what I observed shocked me to my marrow. My dear, I was isolated, stigmatised and dejected. All the associations like SUG, Medical Laboratory Students Association and others were there because her corpse was kept in the school hospital. I was there walking like an outcast. Students and staff of the school were just gossiping and pointing at me without acknowledging my presence Investigations into  My Daughter’s Death, A Charade While she said she was still in shock as to how her daughter died, Ms Owoichi said she would not accept the outcome of the investigation  by the school  authorities , insisting that she was convinced that  no concrete evidence would come out of the investigation because, she has been deprived of information about who discovered her daughter’s corpse. “With regards to investigation, they are not doing any thing. They are just giving story. They should have informed me officially about it and they would have not even commenced it on social media but they did not. They have me as a parent of the child in their school. I was there when she got admission, she got admission at the age of 18. “Imagine that you have student under your care and you do not care for them. At least, they’re supposed to tell me that they are sorry and that investigation was still ongoing on the matter. On her late daugther’s roommate who was first contacted, she said,  the explanation given by the roomate still remains unclear as she has not been able to provide answer as to who first discovered the corpse. “She has a roommate by named Gloria and in fact , she disappeared initially but resurfaced later only to be seen  panicking . She however claims that she does not know anything about my girl’s death and I’m like,  my daughter is gone for eternity . As I speak to you now , I’m yet to be told who recovered her corpse. “I want them to tell me the reason why I was not officially informed about her death as well as the investigations carried out on her. “Imagine we went there and paid for everything in the school mortuary as if she was not a student . Look , I am a graduate and my father was a lecturer, so they can’t  tell me that I wouldn’t have understood how things work,” she stated. A family member who identified himself as Thomas O. Otegwu told  LEADERSHIP Sunday that the family was not officially informed about  the incident but got to information via social media and calls placed across by some concerned personsmwho recognised the deceased. Mr Thomas, who told in LEADERSHIP Sunday that he was not aware that the late Christabel was sexually abused during her 100-  level, said her friends who disclosed it to him said, though the deceased was traumatised after the incident , she however recovered and carried on with life. “Of course not, all of us are very angry about the treatment meted out to.our sister . We went to that school to get her corpse but the school claimed to be ignorant of the development. “Shockingly, on getting to the police station,  the DPO directed us back to the school, saying, she is carrying the school ID card”. “She is in Benin because of the school but officially she is not in tittle to hostel accommodation and the school knew that she is not in tito it accommodation but she is carrying their school ID card. He said, “We took her to Benin because the school accepted to take care of her so it does not make sense at all. At least they should have taken the responsibility. If we are not comfortable with the outcome of their investigation, we will head to court so that henceforth, they will understand their responsibility, not to us because our daughter is dead but for others.” The authorities of the University of Benin had said though the incident took place outside the school premises, investigations were underway. Spokesperson of the institution, Mr. Michael Osasuyi, said a team has been dispatched to investigate the incident and the team is expected to submit the outcome of the investigation to the University authority. Also, Edo State Police spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor said no arrest has been made as investigation to unravel the cause of her death had commenced. “Investigation said the suicide note was incoherent. Professionals will examine the body to ascertain whether she was a psychiatric patient”, said DSP Nwabuzor. But when contacted over the allegations raised by the deceased’s mother, the University of Benin authorities said while they sympathise with the family for their lost, they still maintain that the responsibility to look into what led to the girl’s death falls on the shoulder of the police and family members who are already working together. Spokesperson of the school, Mr. Michael Osasuyi, told  LEADERSHIP Sunday that the school will not trade blames over the sad incident. According to Mr Michael: “If they were willing and ready to look at it critically, they should not trade blames but rather meet with the police because the matter is already before the police, and then sort it out.” “When things like that happen outside the school, it is not for the school to go outside there to get information. The information comes to the school that something like that has happened. “So blaming the school that they did not inform her, is wrong. The school got to know when the family member came to the school. The information got to the school that morning that the police had gone there and the school sort to find out what really happened. That was the same morning people came from her family: a young man and a lady who said she was her( the deceased) elder sister. “The first thing the school does when there are issues off campus, it deals with the police. We go to the police station to give brief, said Mr Michael who disclosed members of the family and “the CSO of the school went to the police station together to get the brief from the DPO” of Ekosodin. He said,  “the accusation that they got the news from social media and not the school is also wrong.  If it has happened within the school or during school hours, the message would have come from the school immediately. But it didn’t happen within the campus. Accusing the school of what it is not supposed to be accused of, is not a fair one to the school”. “In as much as we sympathise with the family, there is need for us not  to trade blames unnecessary. The police said the girl dropped a suicide note but what was trending was different from what the police wrote. That was exactly what the police said, that she dropped and it’s only members of the family that are aware. They went to the station and the police told them this was the note that girl dropped. On the issue of the family not being aware of plans to carry out an autopsy on the decease, he said since the family members had interfaced with the police, it became a matter between the police and the family members. “As the matter came up, if the school did not make an attempt to get information, it could have been a different thing but that was not the position. The moment the news came, the school swung into action to get accurate details. “Since the police were in the picture, that was the first place the school went to get their brief, said the school spokesman who also advised that people should always seek to varify information before they put it on social media so as not to convey wrong messages.