Honorable Abubakar Bawa Bwari is the immediate past minister of state for Mines and Steel Development. Bwari is also a quintessential politician with a vast exposure in both public and private spheres. He speaks with FATIMA SHUA’IB on his achievements and challenges since he came on board the mining sector How important is the mining sector to Nigeria’s economy? The mining sector is key to national development and Nigeria is fully endowed with abundant mineral resources, mined materials are used to construct roads and build infrastructures. The mining sector is particularly important to our economy as it catches the eyes of foreign and domestic investors, we cannot rely solely on oil and gas exploration if we want to move this country forward, we are blessed with numerous minerals in Nigeria and we have a glaring future in mining if we pay more attention. The mining sector has a record of an increased contribution to the country’s GDP. The area of revenue creation and employment cannot be overemphasized on. What are some of the challenges you encountered? When we came on board, our major challenge was lack of geoscience data which discouraged some of our investors, some of our other challenges are linked towards funding and attraction of new investors, we cannot overlook the security challenges, as well the activities of illegal miners most especially since the discovery of Gold in Zamafara State.  What are your achievements ? Availability of data is quite an important factor in the mining industry, when we cane on board, we had some issues regarding the availability of data, so we started gathering and keeping records to provide essential for the use of mining investors. Although the previous administration had some of that in places we had to do more and in the cause of that, we were able to discover various minerals in different states. We were able to generate revenue as well as the area of employment. This did not only raise the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and earn Nigeria huge foreign exchange, it also encouraged the expansion of downstream activities, and ensured speedy realisation of the goals and objectives of the administration’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). We have also created a roadmap for the sector and increased budgetary allocations.  We have heard overtime about the crisis faced by the people of Zamafara State as a result of illegal gold mining. What measures have been implemented by the mining sector? First of all, I would say that it is quite unfortunate that lives have been lost as a result of banditry and illegal mining operations in Zamfara. Mining operations were shut down for a while and this also scared away investors, regardless, we are urging investors to maintain patience as measures have been made by security agencies to curb this menace in good time. Zamafara state is endowed with abundant minerals such as gold, nickel, manganese and barite and it should be protected at all cost.  As the outgoing minister, what legacy are you leaving behind? I would say, we came, we saw and we conquered. My team and I have managed to raise the bar, although it has not been easy, with the help of the almighty and the government, we have been able to achieve significant successes and figures from 2015 till date. The issue of funding has been addressed to a maximum level. We have made sure that Nigeria remained a mining destination to attract foreign and local investors. We have made great progress in resolving the legal issues surrounding the Ajaokuta Steel Complex. Similarly, but ALSCON, we have made significant progress in our effort to bring the company back to life with the approval of the National Council on Privatisation that Messrs UC Rusal be restated as core investor. These are just a few of the legacies we will be leaving behind and we hope the next administration does better in this regard. 