Engr. Cyprian Oyom Igban, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Cross River State is a fiery supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari. In this interview, he speaks on the relationship between the President and APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Your party, APC, failed to clinch any state in the South-south and the South-east zones in the recent general elections. What is your take on the prospects of the party in those areas? Ahough, we did not win any state outright in the two zones but the performance of APC in the two zones is a big improvement of her performance in 2015. Therefore, the prospects are very bright. And do not forget that prior to the recent general elections our great party had made appreciable gains in the South-south and the Southeast. Take my state, Cross River State for example; we worked extremely hard to ensure that the President obtained far above the constitutionally required 25 percent vote in the presidential election. In my own case, I fought hard and delivered my own ward, Ovonum 100 percent for Mr. President as well as the senatorial and House of Reps candidates. It is only in my ward in the entire state that our party, APC cleared all the twelve polling units in the ward in the presidential and the National Assembly election. You can crosscheck it. In fact, if not for the massive rigging by the PDP in the zone the votes for APC would have been far higher than what you saw. However, we are grateful to God because several influential and respectable politicians in the zone have been jumping from the PDP’s sinking ship for the safer APC thereby making our party stronger. I am sure that in the next election, APC will win the governorship seat in Cross River and Akwa Ibom State.  Moving over to Southwest which struck a political deal with the North that helped to seal APC’s victory in 2015, how would you evaluate the political understanding between President Buhari and Asiwaju Tinubu, the APC leader? I sincerely consider the alliance between President Muhammadu Buhari and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as an act that was ordained by God Almighty. Through the divine will of Almighty God, they came together and reached an understanding to rescue Nigeria from the captivity of corrupt and greedy leaders under the PDP era. Here you can quote me. I repeat that under PDP, the country’s treasury was being looted and siphoned dry by all officials, be they elected, appointed, employed or selected. It was stealing extravaganza. We thank God Almighty that it is no longer business as usual because of Buhari intervention. The summary of what I’m saying is that Buhari and Tinubu are the best that Nigeria can boast of; in terms of leadership presently they are the best. My own evaluation is that President Buhari is best Nigerian President ever. As for Tinubu he ranks as the number one in political sagacity and mobilisation. It will be a good development for Nigeria if he succeeds Buhari in 2023.  Can you give us your candid assessment of the performance of President Buhari so far in office? Answering this question is like analysing the anatomy of a huge elephant. To be frank, after four years, President Muhammadu Buhari has achieved so much far beyond the expectations of people. I can state without any fear of contradiction that no other government or administration in Nigeria as an independent country has achieved more than what the present administration has so far achieved since it came to power on May 29, 2015. If they can do that just within the first four years in office, you can imagine where we will be as a country when the President completes his second and final term.  Can you point out some specific achievements? Yes, I can say it again and again that the Buhari administration’s achievements are very many; they are not secret but open for any objective observer to see for himself. Nigerians often forget that this is the first government that is fully committed to the fight against the menace of corruption and indiscipline. I can say that if not for the victory of President Buhari in 2015, Nigeria would have collapsed under the weight of corruption and greed. When President Buhari came, the problem had reached an alarming stage where state governors, federal ministers, heads of parastatals and other agencies supervising public resources were appropriating the entire budget as their private money which they could use any how; not even the president of the country showed any serious concern about that ugly situation. Even salaries and allowances for workers could no longer be guaranteed. Not only that many projects were stalled and there was general decay in the midst of plenty all because a few people had cornered our collective resources for own exclusive use. At that stage, the situation had become so bad and alarming to the extent that nobody was being arrested or prosecuted for corruption. It got to a stage where the sitting president publicly declared that stealing was not corruption. We were at that critical stage when one man who I choose to call ‘Mr. Integrity’ came on stage; it was by the grace of God. The man put his own life and personal wellbeing at stake and said ‘no’ to corruption. That one man, the singular patriot is President Muhammadu Buhari; he said that enough is enough. He went after the rogues daring all odds; he chased and arrested many of them. He forced some of them to vomit what they had stolen and swallowed. He led and has been leading by example and that is why it is possible for him to confront them without compromise or fear. Oh, yes, President Buhari is clean and untainted; his type is rare to come; he is the best that is available and we are very lucky and proud to have him as our leader now. One other area, the Buhari administration has achieved a lot is security of lives and property having fought Boko Haram insurgents from all fronts and brought them to their knees. Remember that before he came Boko Haram was chasing Nigerian soldiers into Cameroun and Chad. Again, the Buhari administration has also done well in managing the economy of the nation. For example, to reduce the effects of declining oil price in the international market, the administration has succeeded in ensuring good balance and sometimes marginal rise in Nigeria’s daily crude production since 2017. The Buhari administration recorded the highest volume of foreign reserves for the country in the last four years which peaked at nearly $45bn by the end of 2018. In the same vein, the GDP growth stood at nearly two per cent in the third quarter of 2018. Through that achievement, it became possible for Nigeria to move from deficit to surplus in her trade balance which is good. One other sector where so much gain has been made in the last four years is agriculture. The present administration has greatly reinvigorated the agricultural sector. As I speak today, massive rice imports have virtually stopped while the nation is saving every month about 25 billion naira. The figure will continue to improve to a level when we will become not just self-sufficient but a major rice exporting country. One more area is the rigorous implementation of the Treasury Single Account where the Buhari administration has succeeded in enthroning probity and transparency. The TSA is a model that is now being copied by other countries from Nigeria.  With regard to infrastructure, how would you assess the present administration’s performance? I can assure you that truly, one significant step forward by this administration is President Buhari’s drive to close Nigeria’s infrastructural deficit by completing abandoned projects inherited. This is a president who has strategically initiated and executed several new projects. Because President Buhari is not interested in praise singing or window shows, he has shunned white elephant projects while focusing on those projects that directly touch on the lives and wellbeing of majority of the people of this country. Due to the fact that the President is not like the typical Nigerian politician who thrives on ego by abandoning projects started by their predecessors and embarking on new ones for which they can claim total credit, he has been able to achieve so much in the area of infrastructure development which is commendable. There were over a thousand federal government projects scattered all over the country when President Buhari took over. They comprised road projects, healthcare, education, water resources, electricity power generation, housing projects and so on and so forth.  As I speak today, President Buhari has completed many of them and is set to complete more not to talk of new ones embarked upon. The advent of the Buhari administration has also witnessed the non-oil sectors exports rise by as high as seventy percent annually; manufactured goods exports have shot up by 22% at annual rate. As at the end of December 2018, power generation was as high as 7,000 megawatts. Remember that it was a paltry 2,000 megawatts when Buhari took over in 2015 from Jonathan. And let’s not forget the Lagos-Kano Standard Gauge railway project which is nearing completion and commissioning. Equally, the very strategic Lagos-Ibadan and Kano-Kaduna railway lines are projected to be ready in 2019 ending. Concerning the South-south and the Southeast angle, the coastal railway line covering many cities, towns and villages from Lagos to Calabar is on card and major works will soon commence there. The massive road and rail projects are for posterity as the benefits would be enjoyed later. Having a President that detests corruption is a huge image promotion for Nigeria and confidence-builder for investors. It is a relief for the masses, knowing that the nation’s wealth is safe and will be used to advance the general cause. I can thumb my chest that the five star achievements of Buhari within his four years in power are self-explanatory. But like I pointed out earlier, that is not to say that the President is an infallible human. No, he might have made mistakes in some areas but the good thing is that he has vowed to make necessary corrections and adjustments in his second tenure.      Considering what you have said above, where do you think are the possible areas of failure by the administration of President Buhari?  Yes. I can’t see any failure associated with this administration despite the mess left behind by PDP and the efforts of few unpatriotic elements to sabotage the efforts of the administration. All I can say is that like under even the best of administrations anytime, anywhere, the world over, there will always be room for improvement. By that I mean a kind of putting round pegs in round holes or squares pegs in square holes. You understand what I mean. What I’m saying is a kind of overhauling his team to bring on board more committed professionals and technocrats. Injection of fresh bloods will brings more ginger, innovation and achievements. 