Visa yesterday announced a new strategic agreement with Western Union, a global leader in cross-border on cross-currency money movement. According to the deal, Western Union would implement Visa Direct, Visa’s real-time push payments platform in an effort to bring speed and transparency to the process of sending money around the world. This collaboration reinforces Visa’s commitment to modernise how payments are made around the world. Once Western Union’s implementation of Visa Direct is live, Western Union would be able to offer customers an expedited remittance service onto cards with more transparency and an enhanced user experience for both senders and receivers. Western Union and Visa share a vision for modern money movement; this expanded service is intended to make cross border payments more reliable and efficient than ever before. Nearly $80 trillion of money is sent via a wire transfer or bank account globally today, but the process is harder and more complex than it should be. Money can take days to arrive because of outdated, multi-step, costly methods. 85 per cent of all transactions are still in cash, or other physical currency. The digitization and improvement of these solutions are core to both Visa’s and Western Union’s payment modernization strategies. “Together Visa Direct and Western Union are collaborating with plans to scale real-time cross border payments to businesses and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories in more than 130 currencies,” said Bill Sheley, global head of push payments, Visa. “This new strategic relationship with Western Union combines the industry-leading capabilities of the world’s largest remittance provider with Visa’s global reach, risk management abilities and operating scale, to bring exceptional value propositions and user experiences to senders and receivers around the globe,” Sheley added. Jean Claude Farah, executive vice president, Western Union said, “Western Union has the largest money transfer retail network and this agreement represents a key milestone for our account payout network combining the best of Visa and Western Union‘s cross-border capabilities to enable a world-class payments platform. “This collaboration enables our customers to have a fast, user-friendly and reliable platform to send funds into billions of accounts across the world,” he said. In 2018 Western Union completed more than 800 million transactions for consumer and business clients. Their commitment to innovation and convenience has led them to develop and invest in new ways to send money through digital and mobile channels. Visa is focused on improving and modernising cross border payments.