The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the Police have been urged to prosecute the lawyers and those who were fingered in the report of the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petition, which recently probed a case of fraud and forgery brought against First Bank of Nigeria plc, by Dr. Francis Nwufoh, owner of Whiteplains British School, Abuja. Hon Zaphaniah Jisalo presented the petition on behalf of Whiteplains at the House of Representatives’ sitting of Tuesday,11th December 2018. The committee directed the “police to  conclude investigation and prosecute, if necessary” just as it “charged the disciplinary committee of the Nigeria Bar Association to investigate the case and bring the culpab|e lawyers who perpetrated the forgery to book. The report released to journalists yesterday by Dr. Nwufoh, was signed by Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta, Committee Chairman, and Yakubu W. Yilji (PST), Committee Clerk. The Committee observed from documentary evidence and oral testimonies by parties that there was a Tripartite Mortgage agreement purportedly signed by the petitioner and First Bank. The committee said the Tripartite Legal Mortgage was secured by fraud since all the signatories denied ever signing same”. “That the Tripartite Legal Mortgage was forged by one Mr. Chuks Dibiezue, the owner of Lagardera & Co., who is an external solicitor to First Bank”. “That from the evidence led before this Honourable Committee, it is obvious that the Lawyers who perfected the said Deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage doctored or forged the signatures of the Directors of France-Lee Nigeria limited after discovering that the Petitioner did not perfect his title to the said property in order to secure the perfection of the deed to Tripartite LegaI Mortgage” the report stated. Following its findings, the Committee recommended the Central Bank of Nigeria to investigate the role of First Bank in the forgery of Deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage documents, which altered the loan agreement. “The Committee directed the Directors of Land, Abuja Geographical Information System to expunge all the documents filed in securing the Deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage over Plot No. 321 measuring approximately 1.8 hectares within Dakibiyu District Cadastral Zone B10 allocated to France-Lee Nigeria Ltd by virtue of the term of grant conveyance of approval dated 24th July, 1998 and a certificate of occupancy dated 31st  August, 2005. Also, the Directors of Land were asked to “expunge, discountenance and cancel the said forged deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage over the said property as same was secured by fraud. The report equally directed the Registrar General of Corporate Affairs Commission to “cancel the letter of consent to signatures of Directors of Franc-Lee Nigeria limited filed by Mr. Chuks Dibiezue, the external solicitor of the First Bank and Form CO7, the particulars of charge duly filed by Mr. Chuks Dibiezue, the external solicitor to First Bank”. Joined in the petition by Whiteplains were Managing Director First Bank, the Governor Central Bank of Nigeria, Director in charge of Land AGIS, the Inspector General of Police, and the Nigerian Police. Other respondents included Barr Godwin Imakhai (Notary Public) and one Bola Olotu.