With some underwriting firms struggling to pay genuine claims as and when due, insurance brokers, numbering about 500, are now throwing caution to the wind, by taking their insurance businesses to highly capitalised underwriting firms, LEADERSHIP can now reveal. The brokers, it was learnt, embarked on this move, in a bid to ensure that insurers have the capacity to underwrite risk businesses taken to them. Already, the National Insurance Commission(NAICOM), has announced a new recapitalisation exercise that would increase the current capital base of the industry by about 300 per cent. The exercise is to ensure that the insurance sector have liquid underwriters capable of fulfilling their civic responsibility of paying claims as and when due. And with some brokers already having challenge of retrieving claims on businesses they brought to these weak insurance firms, it was decided that brokers have to be watchful of underwriters they brokered their insurance business with, going forward. To this end, the insurance broking fraternity, under the auspices of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has warned its members to desist from placing insurance businesses in struggling underwriters, in a bid to protect the image of insurance brokers. Speaking at the June Edition of Members Evening in Lagos, president, NCRIB, Mr. Shola Tinubu, urged brokers to avoid insurers that were defaulting in claims payment as that could tarnish the image of the broker that brokered such insurance business. According to him, “The news has been making rounds that some brokers still indulge in placing businesses with companies that are challenged and may have difficulty in paying claims when losses occur. This should be watched. As critical stakeholders, brokers would be watching as the implementation of the directives on recapitalisation unfolds before us.” Stating that insurance brokers cannot pretend that the ongoing recapitalisation would not affect broking business as brokers are part of the insurance industry, he noted that, as a proactive council, NCRIB is critically examining the implications and possible solutions to the effect the implementation of recapitalisation exercise would have on members. Saying that the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has jerked up the taking minimum paid-up capital of insurance companies in Nigeria, he added that the new capital base requires companies that want to remain in Life Business to raise their minimum paid up capital base from N2 billion to a minimum of N8 billion; General Insurance Companies from N3 billion to N10 billion, Composite Insurance Companies from N5 billion to N18 billion, while Re-Insurance Companies would be required to have  a Paid Up capital base of N20 billion from N10 billion.