Oando Plc, yesterday, asked the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to exercise restraint and give it fair hearing over the directive that its group chief executive officer and his deputy should resign and cease to be directors of the oil conglomerate. The company said that it was not given opportunity to defend itself before SEC arrived at its judgement, noting that more than five months after a forensic audit was conducted at its office by Deloitte and Touché, the regulator did not inform it of the findings of the audit investigation. SEC had, in a statement issued on Friday, said it concluded its investigation of Oando Plc and had directed the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) and the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer (DGCEO) to resign and cease from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. SEC also directed the convening of an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting (EGM) on or before July 1, 2019, to appoint new directors. According to SEC, the findings from the report revealed serious infractions such as false disclosures, market abuses, mis-statements in financial statements and internal control failures. Others are: corporate governance lapses stemming from poor board oversight, irregular approval of directors’ remuneration, unjustified disbursements to directors and management of the company, related party transactions not conducted at arm’s length, amongst others. SEC also directed the payment of monetary penalties by the company, affected individuals and directors as well as refund of improperly disbursed remuneration by the affected Board members to the company. Chief operating officer, Oando Energy Resources, Ainojie Irune, reacting to SEC’s directive, said Oando was ready to engage with SEC to address the issues raised, stating that the company should have been briefed and given the opportunity to defend itself against the allegations. “At about 3pm on Friday, SEC issued a statement at the NSE on the conclusion of its investigation based on a petition which we thought was unjust. About 6pm same day, we received a mail at our office from SEC on the matter. Up till now, we have not seen the audit report.”