The European Union Commission supports the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and is proposing a 40 billion Euro package to attract investments that would create at least 10 million jobs in Africa. This was revealed by the EU Ambassador to the African Union,  Ambassador Ranieri Sabatucci, in an opening address to a two-day Horn of Africa (AfCFTA) forum focusing on the pharmaceutical industry. “As was highlighted by the EU Commission President, Juncker, in his state of the union speech in September, last year, referring to the AfCFTA, he expressed the wish that the long term perspective is to create a comprehensive continent to continent free trade agreement between EU and Africa,” he said. He said to prepare for this, economic partnership agreements, free trade agreements, “including the deep and comprehensive free trade areas and others in the countries, north of Africa and other trade issues with the EU, should be exploited to the greatest extent as building blocks to the benefit of the AfCFTA. “The ambition is to further increase African exports and to attract investment, including manufacturing and processing sectors and to encourage the creation of regional value chains through flexible rules of origin. “To support this, a massive support of 40 billion Euros of grants under the new Africa-European Alliance for Jobs and Growth is proposed as from 2021 to 2027 to, among others, attract investments that would create 10 million jobs in Africa,” he said, adding the EU will continue to increase its support to Africa in that regard. Mr Sabatucci said the AfCFTA has an extra-ordinary potential to be economically transformative for Africa by creating the world’s largest integrated common market since the establishment of the WTO. Speaking at the same forum, Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) Executive Secretary, Vera Songwe, said Africa’s pharmaceutical industry is a good summary of what the AfCFTA can deliver for the continent. Worth $20.8 billion in 2013, the industry is predicted to be $64 billion in the next 10 years, creating over 16 million jobs in the process. The theme of the forum, which was organised by the ECA, the Government of Ethiopia, the African Union Commission (AUC), and the European Union (EU), is: “AfCFTA Implementation: Breaking Down Geographical, Logistical and Regulatory Barriers to Trade and Investment in the Horn to Boost Industrialisation: A Focus on the Pharmaceutical Industry”.