Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has declared that his administration has submitted names of lecturers of the Rivers State University to the Department of State Services (DSS) for profiling following the activities of suspected cultists in the University. He also declared that his administration is working with security agencies to frontally go after kidnappers and cultists across the state, saying no kidnapper or cultist will be spared. Wike, who spoke yesterday at Government House, Port Harcourt, during a meeting with the leaders and elites of Choba community in Obio/Akpor local government area of Rivers State, said any lecturer linked to cultism would be sacked. The governor stated that the state government will provide further logistics support to fight kidnapping and cultism in the state, saying: “We are going after all cultists and kidnappers in the state.  We will not spare anyone. “Security agencies are prepared to tackle these cultists and kidnappers. For us, we are releasing further logistics support to them. By the time this crackdown starts, we will not listen to any pleading.” He further stated that his administration would fish out lecturers of the Rivers State University, who are cult-inclined. Wike said: “At the Rivers State University, we have sent out names of all the lecturers to the DSS for profiling. Any lecturer who is linked to cultism will be sacked. ”As a lecturer, you should not use your position to create crisis through cultism in the university”. The governor said anti-cultism law would be amended to demolish the building of anyone indicted in cultism, adding that demolition of houses will not be restricted to kidnapping. He urged the elites of Choba community to work with his administration to promote peace in the area. Speaking at the meeting, Rivers State Police Commissioner, Mustapha Dandaura, urged community leaders to furnish the police and other security forces with information on those fomenting trouble in Choba. Dandaura, who stated that the Police Command has arrested the youth leader of Choba community and  two others, noted that the youths have supplied the police with the names of those involved  in cultism and the State Police Command has started tracking them. The Police Commissioner said that he wanted to meet with Choba youths, but they gave him negative  conditions  that derailed  the meeting. Paramount Ruler of Choba community, Eze Raymond Welibor Okocha said that the community leaders started the peace process, but they ran into challenges. He said that peace building has been hampered by the existence of factions.