Jubilation  for the March 9th governorship election in Taraba state turned violent as 8 people were killed while 56 others were admitted at Federal Medical Center (FMC) Jalingo with various degrees of injuries. The data of the casualty of the election as contain in a document made available from the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the governor of Taraba state on Media and Publicity Bala Dan Habu indicates that 36 out of the 56 persons hospitalized at the FMC were being treated of life threatening injuries ranging from gun shots, stabbed and arrow wounds. The Special Assistant, Media while briefing journalist on the incident blamed the All Progressive Congress APC gubernatorial candidate in Taraba state Sani Abubaka Danladi for accusing the People’s Democratic Party of been behind the attacks that left 8 persons dead and several others injured in Jalingo Taraba a state capital. Dan Habu said it was unfortunate to hear Sani Danladi to point his accusing fingers at the members of PDP who were out in a jubilation mood over the governorship victory while they were brutally attacked by some arm thugs. “I understand the governorship candidate of APC Sani Danladi in his reaction to the post-election violent accused the PDP in the state of been behind the violent, is so unfortunate to hear someone make such comment, PDP Won the election, they went out for celebration and they were attacked, killed and injured, how can someone turn to accuse members of PDP of killing themselves?” Dan Habu also reacted to recent publication in some national dailies that an aid to governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba state was arrested with 350 PVCs in Jalingo by the DSS, he said the report was not true and lark basis. He said after the unfounded accusations, the name of the aid and his portfolio was not mention in the cooked story, he further stated that the Secretary to the state government has cross checked the list of those working for the government and the Governor without getting any element of truth in the story. Bala call on anybody who has facts that an aid to governor Darius was arrested with PVCs in Jalingo to prove to the world. He therefore call on the people of Jalingo to obey the 6am to 4pm curfew impose on Jalingo and cooperate with security agencies to ensure that calm return to the state capital. It will be recall that Sani Danladi, the governorship candidate of APC in Taraba shortly after the declaration of the election result that gave victory to PDP address journalist and accused the PDP of coursing violence in Jalingo and other towns in the state. Sani also used the medium to reject the outcome of the result and vow to seek redress at the election tribunal to reclaim his mandate.