The ongoing trial of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN),  Justice Walter Onnoghen, at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) will now be conducted on a day-to-day basis. The tribunal chairman, Danladi Umar, who made this declaration during  yesterday’s proceedings, said the move was to ensure speedy delivery of justice. He consequently fixed today for continuation of the trial even without consulting the prosecution and defence lawyers. Earlier, Justice Onnoghen had insisted that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to proceed with the six-count charge brought against him by the federal government. Onnoghen told the tribunal that, as a serving judicial officer, it is the National Judicial Council (NJC) that is vested with powers to entertain any misconduct allegation against him. In a motion dated January 14, 2019, Onnoghen through his counsel, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo,  SAN, prayed the tribunal to dismiss all the charges against him for want of jurisdiction. Awomolo, who cited sections 34 and 292 of the 3rd schedule of the 1999 constitution, contended that the CCT had no power to deal with erring judicial officers without first resorting to the NJC. He said the powers of the NJC were superior to that of the Code Conduct Bureau when it comes to the issue of judicial officers, adding that in line with section 292, the NJC must first indict a judicial officer before any judicial measure can be taken. In the second application dated January 31, 2019 and predicated on section 36 of the 1999 constitution, Onnoghen demanded that the chairman of the tribunal recuse or disqualify himself from further participating in the trial on the grounds that of likelihood of bias. The defendant claimed that Umar had already demonstrated sufficient bias against him in the conduct of proceedings and that it would be in the best interest of justice for the CCT boss to step aside from the proceedings. Onnoghen stated that in the instant case, the executive arm of government where Umar belongs to is the complainant, investigator, prosecution and the judge, contrary to the provisions of the law. But in his response, counsel to the federal government, Aliyu Umar, SAN, urged the tribunal to dismiss Onnoghen’s application for lacking in  merit. In his ruling on the two motions, the CCT chairman announced that rulings had been reserved and would be delivered along with the substantive suit. Umar also, in the short ruling, invoked section 296(2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act to arrive at his conclusion, saying  that in line with the provisions of the law, ruling in all motions would not  be delivered until the final judgement of the main matter. Meanwhile, there was a mild drama at the Tribunal yesterday when the suspended CNN Onnoghen came to the tribunal with his own chair. One of his aides, who does not want his name in print, would not comment on why his boss came to the tribunal with his chair. At the last adjourned date of the tribunal last month, the suspended CJN turned down the gesture of the tribunal chairman, Mr Danladi Umar, who had asked him to sit down while proceedings at the tribunal were on. But the CJN, who arrived at the tribunal at about 10am yesterday in the company of his aides, brought a chair to sit on in the dock while proceedings were on.