In another major shake-up, the Nigerian Army has redeployed no fewer than 16 Generals in various divisions and institutions of the service. The new redeployments were announced yesterday by the acting director Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa. In the last six months, the Army has carried out a series of redeployment of top senior officers across its divisions and other establishments across the country. Those affected by the new posting, according to Col. Musa, are Maj-Gen. H.O. Otiki, who was moved to 8 Division and appointed the General Officer Commanding (GOC); Maj-Gen. S.O. Olabanji, the erstwhile GOC, 8 Division has been posted to Infantry Corps Centre and appointed as Commander Infantry Corps; Brig-Gen. H.I. Bature from 34 Brigade to Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command as Director Examinations, while Brig-Gen.T.O. Olowomeye from Headquarters 33 Brigade to Army Headquarters Department of Civil-Military Affairs as Director of Civil-Military Affairs. Others are Brig-Gen. B.A. Mohammed of 23 Brigade who has been moved to Martin Luther Agwai International Peace Keeping Centre and appointed Deputy Commandant; Brig-Gen. U.M. Bello from Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command to 63 Brigade and appointed Commander; Brig-Gen. M.T. Durowaiye from the Directorate of Army Transformation and Innovation to 33 Brigade as Commander. There are also Brig-Gen. S.B. Kumapayi from Army Headquarters Department of Civil-Military Affairs to Headquarters 14 Brigade as Commander; Brig-Gen. N.M. Jega from Headquarters 2 Brigade to 9 Brigade and appointed Commander; Brig-Gen. K.O. Aligbe from 16 Brigade to Defence Headquarters as Acting Director Liaison National Assembly; Brig-Gen. A.K. Ibrahim from 14 Brigade to Army Headquarters Department of Administration (Army) and appointed as Deputy Director Veteran Affairs Department Retired Officers’ Cell, and Brig-Gen. G.T.O. Ajetunmobi from Headquarters Command Army Records to 31 Brigade as Commander. Similarly, Brig-Gen. O.G. Onubogu from Army Headquarters Department of Army Policy and Plans was redeployed to Headquarters 16 Brigade and appointed as the Commander; Brig-Gen. O.M. Bello from Nigerian Army Resource Centre to Headquarters 6 Division and appointed as Chief of Staff, while Brig- Gen. Z.L. Abubakar of the National Defence College was moved to 32 Brigade and appointed as Commander and Brig- Gen. A.A. Orukotan from Nigerian Army Resource Centre to Headquarters Command Army Records and appointed as the Chief of Staff.