***Says INEC Has Surrendered It’s Independence To APC  ***Decries Killing Of 58 Persons So Far  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged it’s leaders and members in states where elections were declared inconclusive to immediately commence a march to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices and use all legitimate means to protect their mandate.  The national publicity secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, who stated this in a press conference yesterday, also accused INEC of surrendering it’s independence to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by declaring states where PDP was leading as inconclusive.  PDP while also lamented the violence that trailed the recent governorship elections, alleged that information at it’s disposal revealed that 58 persons were killed in the course of the elections.  While INEC postponed the Rivers State, elections in Benue, Plateau, Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi were also declared inconclusive.  Ologbondiyan explained that their call for the march is not a call to anarchy but for the defense of their mandates within the ambit’s of the law.  He said “Today, majority of Nigerians and the global democratic institutions are questioning the state of our democracy and electoral processes, which have been under siege under the supervision of President Buhari and Prof. Mahmood Yakubu.  “In the light of these INEC’s manipulative tendencies, PDP therefore charges our leaders, teeming members and lovers of democracy in the affected states to immediately commence a march to INEC offices and use all legitimate means to protect our mandate as freely given by the people at the polling units across the nation,” he said.  He added the “march to INEC is not a call to anarchy. But for them to defend their mandate and votes within the armbits of the law.”  The PDP also accused the chairman of INEC Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, of overtly playing the script of the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) by declaring governorship elections in states where the PDP is in clear lead as inconclusive.  “Party insists that INEC, under Prof. Yakubu, has become overtly partisan, surrendered its independence to the APC and carries on as a compromised umpire with obnoxious impunity, thereby sending signals of being heavily bribed by the APC to alter results for its candidates.  “The PDP has full intelligence of how INEC is acting on instructions from the Buhari Presidency and the APC in orchestrating unwholesome situations and declaring already concluded governorship elections in Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi, Plateau as well as other states as inconclusive, immediately it becomes obvious that the PDP was set to win.  “This also informs the foisting of unexplainable stoppage and delays in the announcement of already collated results in other states where the PDP is clearly leading the race, from the results so far declared at the polling units.  “Our party has also been informed of how INEC is now seeking ways to use the situation to aid the APC to alter the results and announce APC candidates as winners in the elections clearly led by the PDP just as it did in the 2018 Osun State governorship election.  “In some of the states like Rivers, the PDP has information of plots by APC to leverage on the declaration by INEC to unleash more violence in the state and push for isolated election where they can bring in more security forces to concentrate on forcefully taking over the state.  “Already, in Rivers State, INEC is under heavy pressure from the Director General of the Buhari Campaign Organization and Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, to post out and replace the State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) as well as the Administrative Secretary.  “This will be totally unacceptable, completely provocative and shall be firmly resisted by the people even if the totality of our nation’s security is deployed to Rivers State.  “This is more so as results of all the state assembly elections in Rivers state have been declared and winners had emerged.  “The PDP cautions Prof. Yakubu and his INEC to perish the thoughts of altering any figures for the APC and to immediately announce our winning results in these states and others where our candidates clearly won, going by the results already declared at the poling units, wards and local government collation. Anything short of this will attract the legitimate wrath of the people.  “This is because Nigerians are already aware that elections have been concluded in these states; results have been collated and declared at the polling units, ward and local government collation centers and all returning officers and political parties conclusively have the figures.  “Prof. Yakubu must have noted how his name is becoming synonymous to electoral manipulations, among Nigerians, and the fact that our citizens and international community hold him responsible for the rigging of the Presidential and other elections for the APC,” he said.  