Mr Babachir Lawal, former secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), has urged APC governorship candidate, Gov Muhammad Bindow, to honourably concede defeat in the interest of peace in Adamawa State. Lawal was reacting to the release of delimitation details of polling units for governorship re-run election fixed for March 23rd as released by Independent National Electoral Commision (INEC), in the state. The delimitation details signed by Bakari Musa, Administrative Secretary, for the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Kassim Gaidam, revealed that the total number of registered voters in the 44 polling units stands at 34,101 against 40,948 being speculated. The details were sequel to the demand by People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as condition for the re-run elections in the affected units. Lawal noted that, conceding defeat by APC governorship candidate to give peace a chance, in the state, is aimed at strengthening democratic norms, adding that another election is only four years away. “The only honourable thing to do is for my party’s candidate, governor Bindow, to concede and give peace a chance. “Therefore , let’s not allow elections to cause trouble between brothers, Bindow can go back to the drawing board and launch himself back, he maintained. A former governor, in the state, Boni Haruna discribed the decision by INEC  to declare Adamawa election as inconclusive is not only absurd, but untenable, most unfortunate and unacceptable. “It is our understanding that if elections were cancelled at polling units or wards collation centers, it stands cancelled. “We, therefore, find it curious for the electoral body to resurrect the issue of election results that have been cancelled at the polling units to justify its action of declaring the governorship elections as inconclusive at the level of state collation or declaration of results. It would be recalled that a Yola high court had  granted injunction restraining INEC from conducting supplementary election, slated for March 23,  in 44 units. The  REC in the state, Barrister Kassim Gaidam, said the commission would  go ahead with the conduct of the March 23 supplementary polls in the state.