Though the presidential and National Assembly election has come and gone with winners and losers announced like every other contest, the legions of complaint that trailed the election makes room for questioning. Naturally human beings are averse to admitting defeat, except those with strong sense of sportsmanship. And even those that propagate peace sometimes go all out to seek for better avenues of redeeming the peace. The reactions that trailed the just concluded February 23 election in Sokoto state by both the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Domestic Election Monitoring Observers, left many wondering if truly the election was free and fair. The PDP in outer display of their anger, addressed a press conference where they alleged that the APC fraudulently used both federal might, the security agencies as well as INEC officials to facilitate the rigging in their favour. Speaking on behalf of the party, PDP state party chairman, Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma said, they have it on good record how their mandate was stolen via rigging. Said Milgoma, “On Saturday, 23rd, February, 2019, we members of the PDP and all our supporters came out in their large number like many did across the federation to cast their votes in peace only for the APC to deploy security, and INEC to disenfranchise our people. “In some polling units across the state, PDP members and supporters were arrested, prevented and scared from getting closer because of gun shots hence allowing the APC to stuff ballot boxes with ballot papers”. Giving instances to back his claims, Milgoma in a text he read said, in polling unit, Kawara 002, Tangaza local government, police were used to scare away electorate hence taking the ballot box away into a room where it was manipulated in favour of the APC. “At Farkazawa polling unit 001, the total number of votes scored by  the APC was higher than the entire number of registered voters in the community. At Sama Tudu polling unit 005, the presiding officer held onto the card readers thus allowing the APC to perpetuate acts of rigging”. Continuing, Milgoma said, with the much evidence they have on how the election was rigged in favour of APC, they are surely going to contest the result of the election. “We will take every necessary action to retrieve our stolen mandate. Therefore, our appeal to the people of the state is that they should not be dismayed because there is no cause for alarm. “In the forthcoming governorship and state house of assembly election, we urged the people of the state to come out in their large number and vote for governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. We are also calling on the electorate to also come out and vote for all other candidates of the PDP because it is a known reality that Tambuwal is more competent, has better leadership capacity, has cherished political and leadership prowess when compared to the candidates of the APC”. Collaborating Milgoma’s position, the state Secretary of PDP. Alhaji Kabiru Aliyu said, they have it on good record that the APC sent special security squad from Abuja to the state just to help in the rigging. Aliyu further said, there were evidence of vote buying by the APC, adding that, the security agencies in their bid to actualize their mission were busy harassing and arresting PDP members and supporters while no single APC member was arrested. “In Tudun Wada area of Sokoto North, one police officer, (name withheld) ordered the arrest of PDP agent just to allow the APC have better rigging opportunity. “And judging by all that transpired, we are saying emphatically that both the INEC, security agencies and the APC all connived to rig election in Sokoto state, therefore, we are rejecting in its entirety the election result obtained from Sokoto state. “On the strength of that, we are therefore calling on the INEC to urgently announce a new date when they will guarantee a free, fair and credible election in the state. Let our supporters remain resolute in their determination to uphold the truth. We are rejecting the results for the Presidential and National Assembly elections as announced by INEC”. Kabiru said. In what looks like a confirmation of the PDP’s position on the election, 26 accredited Domestic Election Observers while addressing newsmen at the state secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) commended INEC and the people of Sokoto state for the peaceful conduct of the election, they however added that, it was not devoid of hiccups. Reading their address, Mrs Chibugo Okonkwo said in spite of the fact that, the turnout was a manifestation of how prepared electorates are becoming in the affairs of who governs them, the process will continue to get better over time. While pointing out some grey areas that needed to be addressed subsequently for the nation’s democracy to flourish, Mrs Chobugo said, the issue of ballot box snatching and unwarranted skirmishes in places  was worrisome. Reacting to the election, the state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal said, their party, the PDP ran a peaceful campaign devoid of violence or thuggery in conviction of that their ambition is not worth the lives and safety of their people. Tambuwal, who noted that they ran an orderly campaign that had respect for the lives and dignity of all segments of the society against extreme provocation, stressed that, though, they experienced developments that clearly exhibits the continued determination of the opposition to engage in do or die politics. “Leader and loyalist of our party were harassed, hounded and arrested by security agents, even on the day of election. The opposition also engaged in post election mayhem, with attacks and arson on law-abiding citizens. Many properties and houses were razed in Wamakko and Kware towns and parts of Sokoto metropolis, in a show of terror against perceived opponents and non-partisan members of the public. “At many polling units identified as our strongholds, logistic and technical problems delayed balloting to very late hours and we were well aware of efforts to engage electoral officials and security agents by opposition, with a view to compromising their integrity. Manifestation of these machinations includes the late hour transfer of security officials and replacement of electoral officials. “Our administration and political party is determined to promote free, fair elections in an atmosphere of peace and freedom of choice. That, as far as we are concerned, is a greater victory than winning at the ballot box. Our objective for seeking your mandate is for service to the society, rather than proving our strength. We demand a chance for our people to choose or reject us in their own free will. I wish to therefore appeal to our good people to continue to be patient and law-abiding’’.