Amid discrimination against African traditional medicine, the craze for it continues to rise on local medicine shelves. In this report ODIRI UCHENUNU-IBEH, examines the efficacy and dangers of using the mixtures. If late Mrs Kelechi Chibuzo knew that taking different herbal medicines, popularly known as ‘agbo’ on a regular basis would cost her, her kidney and later her life, she would have listened to her husband, Mr. Edwin Chibuzo who kept telling her of the danger of taking ‘agbo’ without caution. When her husband was narrating the cause of her death to LEADERSHIP Sunday, he said his wife had been taking ‘agbo’ even before they got married. With tears dropping down his face, Mr Chibuzo said “My wife does not believe in orthodox medicine. She prefers ‘agbo’ to orthodox medicine. She does not even wait to fall sick before taking the ‘agbo’. “Whenever she wakes up in the morning, the first thing she will take is ‘agbo’. She kept taking different types of ‘agbo’ until one day, she fell seriously ill. “When we got to the hospital, the doctor told us that she had kidney problem. For the past two years, I have been running from one place to another, looking for money for her dialysis every week. I did all I could to raise the money for the kidney transplant. Few days to the day scheduled for the transplant, she slept and didn’t wake up.” For millions of Nigerians, ‘agbo sellers’ are their only contact with medicine of any kind. Particularly, this is true in rural areas where hospitals are few and doctors are rare. But surprisingly, ‘agbo sellers’ strive in places where there are hospitals and qualified doctors. They are everywhere in the urban areas, selling their ‘agbo’ that can cure all kinds of diseases. Even the educated Nigerians sing the efficacy of ‘agbo’ to orthodox drugs. In fact from time immemorial, people from the southern part of Nigeria, especially the Yoruba speaking people have always relied on herbs for treatment of various diseases. With the advent of orthodox medicine and establishment of clinics and hospitals, many of them still believe in the efficacy of herbal medicines in addressing any health issues and diseases. Despite all entreaties from orthodox medical practitioners on the efficiency of herbal medicines, it has continued to be reckoned with and is gaining more support. It is now gaining more support internationally, as most of the countries in the world are realizing the need to introduce herbal medicines as an alternative to medical treatments. In Nigeria, at various times, successive governments have made frantical efforts at giving recognition to herbal medicines. Also, some Nigerians have toed the line through various investigations and researches and came up with an idea of modernising herbal medicines in such a way that it could be effective and compare favourably with orthodox medicine’s not only in Nigeria but all over the world. To justify their belief in the efficacy of herbs and herbal medicines in general, and the market where all kinds of herbs were being sold, the Ibadan International Market was established over a century ago to serve the purpose of making available any kind of herbs on request. For the first time visitor to this market which is located along Gate-Molete road, precisely at Bode, it will look ordinary, but an attempt to move inward will reveal a very big herbal market established on mass land with over 300,000 stalls and shops. The market since its inception, has continued to grow on daily basis especially when people come from parts of the country, South West countries and other places like Togo, Cotonou, Ghana, Abidjan, Cameroon, Brazil, London every nine days for commercial purposes. As old as the market, the present Olubadan, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji’s mother sold herbs at the market before her demise, while the market has outlived over 19 Olubadans since its existence. The market which started as a small family business, has over grown to the extent that some of the herb sellers have to be moved to NITEL land after Molete to avert clashes and crises. The market which has continued to outlive some of the buyers and sellers, now houses and accommodates them as houses have been built around it by some of them. Again the Ooni of Ile-Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi has endorsed the use of traditional medical solutions in tackling contemporary health challenges affecting humanity. To encourage patronage the monarch recently signed agreement with a Brazilian research institute that specialises in herbal medicine in Brazil. According to the monarch, the earlier the rest of the world embrace herbs to tackle contemporary health challenges, the better for humanity. The Ooni said the present day health challenges facing the world were also witnessed by the older generations and declared that solutions applied to the health issues by the progenitors of the Yoruba race that time, that made them live in sound health till old age are still very relevant in dealing with many of today’s health issues. He said, “I am a testimony of the efficacy and potency of Yoruba herbal products. Since I ascended the throne, I have not used orthodox medicine to treat myself, whenever I feel it is necessary to do so. “God created herbs for us to use to deal with our health challenges. We have dieties in charge of all major creations of God. And these deities relied on roots and herbs to treat ailments. “The powers of these deities are still very potent. But we should not look down on them or treat them with disdain. We must turn to all these beautiful gifts of God to solve our health challenges. My intention is to tell the world that we have trado-medical solutions to all health challenges plaguing mankind and that is what this agreement is all about.’’ The truth is that its acceptance is rapid, for instance, in Lagos state, there are about 3,245 health facilities (314 public health facilities and 2,931 private health facilities. Public health facilities by category would be primary: 286, secondary:2 and tertiary:2). Yet, there is no street you would enter in Lagos state without seeing an ‘agbo seller’. They are everywhere, in the motor parks, market places and even private residential areas. Some Lagosians who patronise them told LEADERSHIP Sunday of surprising cures that have been effected in cases where hospital treatment had failed. Others condemned it as unhygienic, superstitious quackery. On the middle ground are those who call for scientific research into the local herbal remedies and for greater recognition and acceptance of traditional healers. Many would like to see a blending of traditional and modern medicine. Mr Ifeanyi Azubike, a 40 year old man said he cannot remember the last time he visited hospital. How has he been able to stay healthy up till this point? He said, “Whenever I am sick, I take ‘agbo’ that is mixed with gin. Immediately I take it, I will start sweating and that is the end of the sickness.” Unlike mr Azubike that takes it only when he is sick, some youths who take it on a regular basis told LEADERSHIP Sunday on condition of anonymity that apart from the fact ‘agbo’ can cure all kinds of sicknesses with just one ‘shot’, they are taking it just to get ‘high’ and it ‘gingers’ them for the day’s job. When asked if they are aware of the health implications of their action, they quickly changed the topic. Health Implication A medical practitioner, Dr Adewunmi Alayaki, has cautioned Nigerians to stop consuming ‘agbo’ without prescription, as it can damage the vital organs of the body. While some of the orthodox drugs are made out of the plants used in preparing ‘agbo’, Alayaki said orthodox medicines have been prepared in the right composition unlike ‘agbo’ that has no proper research findings to ascertain how much of the herbs could be consumed. He said ‘agbo’ which is made from several herbs contained toxic compounds which could be harmful to the kidney. “A lot of people just go ahead and use it because of their cultural beliefs and really, they may cause chronic kidney damage. Another thing about the ‘agbo’ is that a lot of them are alcohol-based and alcohol itself is harmful to health, especially in hypertensive patients,” Alayaki said. The medical practitioner also noted, “No doubt, there could be some benefits in the use of traditional herbs, but there is need for researchers to research further to ascertain their composition. “I don’t want to say those things don’t have any health benefit at all, because they are made from roots and herbs where the orthodox medicines are also made from. But the difference is in their composition. “Some of the composition may be toxic to the kidney. Even the orthodox medicines, which have been researched, have some side effects which can be harmful to the body.” Alayaki however called on state and local governments to establish ministries and departments of herbal medicine to complement orthodox medicine. “They would also have to carry out more research and documentation on how to improve herbal medicine. “Hopefully, when this is done, we may be able to make sense out of it and reduce the harmful effects and increase the beneficial effects of traditional herbs,”  he added. Government Commences Clinical Trials Of Natural Medicinal Products The Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) with the Nigerian Council of Physicians of Natural Medicine (NCPNM) have partnered to establish collaborations and cooperation for the search and development of Nigerian indigenous natural medicinal products with potential health and economic benefits. In an interview with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the national president of NCPNM, professor Magnus Atilade said the practitioners were hosted by NIMR in Lagos in the first step of the verification exercise. Atilade said the exercise is the first of its kind, after several years of failed efforts to address issues bothering on acceptance of indigenous medicines and according such products the recognition it deserved. The president recalled that before introduction of orthodox medicine, Nigerians and indeed Africans relied on use of local herbs to treat all sorts of ailments. He said in Asia, and South America, traditional medicine have developed significantly because their governments have recognised their efficacy and backed practitioners research efforts. According to him, the goal of the partnership was to use the strengths and expertise of the NIMR to prove and develop the potentials of these natural medicinal products as claimed by NCPNM and other stakeholders into scientifically sound and globally credible medicines and patents. He said both NIMR and NCPNM would conduct scientific investigations, clinical trials, pharmacokinetic and toxicity studies and such others as may be deemed needful or recommended by reputable authorities suggested by NIMR management. This, according to Atilade, aims at proving the efficacy, vetting the safety and eventually developing such natural medicinal products into commercially registered medicine and patents.  Atilade said the verification would be a nationwide exercise beginning with the Southwest. “We want to be relevant in the country’s health care delivery system. We are ready to collaborate with government in this regard, the country is spending huge sums of money to import drugs that ordinarily would have been sourced locally. “This effort will not only benefit the middle and low income Nigerians but will create more jobs because the partnership will also lead to training of more people and investment in this area,” Atilade said.