The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday said it would take final decision on the continuation of election processes in Rivers State, today. Also, depending on the decision of the court sitting today, INEC will take a stand after it had earlier obeyed an injunction to stay away from collation in Bauchi State. In the case of Rivers, LEADERSHIP gathered that INEC would release the final guidelines for the continuation of collation of the gubernatorial election results, which was earlier suspended following disruption. Speaking to LEADERSHIP, the chief press secretary to INEC chairman, Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi, said the commission would release the guidelines for the continuation of the collation of results in Rivers State and completion of the governorship election results from Tafawa Balewa local government area of Bauchi State. “The commission will tomorrow (today) release the detailed timeline and activities for the completion of the governorship and the state house of assembly elections which was suspended in Rivers State,” Oyekanmi said. “We have always obeyed the court orders, as we are law abiding organisation. The commission shall take a decision after the proceedings of the court that ordered the stoppage of the continuation of collation of results in the affected local government in Bauchi. This did not affect the state assembly election in Tafawa Balewa local government,” Oyekanmi said. INEC has filed a motion challenging the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the exparte application filed by the Bauchi State governor, Mohammed Abubakar and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to stop the commission from collation and declaration of result. INEC had fixed March 23, 2019 for the conduct of rerun election in Sokoto, Bauchi, Plateau Adamawa, Benue and Kano states, which were declared inconclusive. After a fact finding committee was setup to look at the process in Bauchi State, INEC ordered for the continuation of the process. Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court Abuja had yesterday stopped INEC from proceeding with the collation, conclusion and announcement of the result of the governorship election in Bauchi State. The order issued on the strength of an ex parte application filed by the APC and the incumbent Governor of Bauchi State Abubakar, shall last till the determination of the suit brought before the court by the two plaintiffs. APC and its candidate had prayed the court for an order of interim injunction restraining INEC from resuming, concluding or announcing the result of the Tafawa Balewa local government area of Bauchi State in respect of the election to the Office of Governor of Bauchi State.