Nigerians have been reminded by United States of America (USA) that the governorship and state assemblies’ påolls slated for Saturday, March 9,å 2019, are as important to the global community as the just-concluded first phase of the country’s general elections. The US’ position on the elections came from its Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Stuart Symington, when he visited Katsina State at the weekend. Symington said that nobody should expect the US to look the other way before, during and after elections in any free country. The envoy explained that he was in the state as part of his on-going tour of the country to underscore America’s interest in the peaceful co-existence of Nigerians. During a visit to the police command in the state, the ambassador absolved the US of any form of interference in Nigeria’s or any free country’s elections around the world. He said: “The US absolutely understands that elections coming up on Saturday, the 9th March, are deeply important to the people of Katsina and they are also deeply important to every Nigerian and to every person in any free country anywhere in the world.” Symington said that whatever happened in any state would affect the country and other nations globally, adding that “credible and peaceful elections come about with a pledge not just by the candidates or their supporters to conduct their campaign peacefully, and vote peacefully but also the aftermaths of the votes. “It also begins for us with the understanding that democracy is not just what happens on election’s day but what happens every day of the year. It’s not just about who wins but how the winners treat the losers and how the losers react when they lose. So, all these things are important in my home state and as they are here in Katsina,” he stated. The state police commissioner, Mr. Sanusi Buba, who expressed gratitude to the diplomat for the visit, said that the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has a template for the general elections. Buba said: “The template was issued to us by the inspector-general of police (IGP) to ensure that we succeed; to go out there and ensure we are apolitical; to be fair in our dealings with all and sundry irrespective of their political persuasions or whatever differences and we are working in tandem with the template issued to us. “That explains why in all through the campaign process that led to the presidential and National Assembly elections and after, we have absolute sanity in Katsina State. We have the maximum cooperation of all the political parties involved in the exercise and the general people of the state. We didn’t record any incident serious enough to mar the exercise. So, it was a largely successful election in Katsina State,” he said. The US envoy also visited the Katsina State governor and gubernatorial candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Aminu Bello Masari, and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the trip. Senate To Probe INEC Over Polls Shift For shifting the just-concluded presidential and National Assembly elections by a week, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is to be subjected to a probe by the Senate. The chairman of the Senate Committee on Works, Senator Kabir Gaya, disclosed this to State House correspondents at the weekend. Senator Gaya said the postponement of the polls contributed to the low turnout of voters for the rescheduled elections on February 23, 2019, in several states of the federation. Gaya stated that the National Assembly approved funds for INEC and that the security agencies were ready for the elections before the commission shocked Nigerians by  shifting the polls without adequate reasons. He said: “I was happy at the day one when they shifted the elections and I said still after shifting the election we will call them to investigate INEC for shifting the elections because it caused a poor turnout. “We will find out the reason – if it was funding, we gave them enough money, if it was the issue of security, the security agencies were ready. So why should INEC shift the elections? “We are going to investigate that when we come back after the governorship election. But generally, they did what they could do, I could say, it’s a pass mark,” he said Gaya, who also expressed happiness that Kano State delivered the highest number of votes to President Muhammadu Buhari in the election, stressed on the poor voter turnout in the state. He said: “I could say that I am happy President Buhari is back and the election was peaceful and Kano State has delivered even though the turnout was very low. “I believe that the major problem was that INEC shifted the elections and people thought that the election would be shifted again and they couldn’t come out to vote. We had just about 30-40 per cent turnout all over the country. “But Kano has delivered, we had the highest number of votes and I think we could say that we are a part of the determining factors for President Buhari reelection because he has really done so much for us – the dualisation of Kano-Abuja Road and the railway project and so on. We are very happy that Buhari has done that and we believe he will do better,” Gaya said. On what to expect from the 9th National Assembly, he said: “We will give President Buhari all the cooperation that is needed so that we can have a smooth ride, especially smooth passage of the budget, a smooth oversight and a cordial relationship between the executive and the legislature. We hope by God’s grace we will give him that support,” he stated.