The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday suspended the Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosu, and his Imo State counterpart, Rochas Okorocha, from the party for indulging in actions contrary to the interests of the party. The NWC also recommended their expulsion from the party to the national executive committee (NEC) for ratification. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that immediately after the presidential campaign in Ogun State where party leaders and the president were pelted with stones, the party blamed it on  Governor Amosun and promised to punish erring party members. Amosun and Okorocha were both elected senators on the platform of APC last Saturday but they are backing candidates of other political parties for the March 2 governorship election. Notwithstanding their victories, the NWC took a decision to punish them as a meeting held yesterday in Abuja where allegations of anti-party activities were levelled against the governors and other chieftains. Another person penalised by the party is the director-general of the Voice of Nigeria, VON, Osita Okechukwu, who was accused of working for the re-election of Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, a PDP candidate. The Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, however, escaped with a query. A statement signed by the APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, reads: “The NWC of the APC has suspended the governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun and the Imo State governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, for anti-party activities. “Also suspended by the APC NWC over anti-party activities are the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Usani Uguru Usani and the director-general of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu. “The NWC has also taken a decision to recommend the expulsion of the suspended individuals to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party. “The NWC would also issue a query to the governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, over his glaring anti-party activities, which greatly affected the fortunes of our candidates in the recently conducted presidential and National Assembly elections in the states. “The NWC noted how the suspended members have continued to campaign openly for other parties and candidates that are unknown to our great party, constituting themselves as opposition to APC candidates in their respective states.” The party stated that it was closely monitoring the activities of its members across the country, particularly in the states these suspended members come from. “We wish to reiterate that any member of our party who takes any action solely or in line with the directives of the suspended members to undermine our party’s candidates in the coming governorship and House of Assembly elections would face disciplinary actions,” it said, just as it warned party members against taking instructions from them.