The Chief of Army Staff COAS , Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, has said politicians have perfected plans to disrupt peaceful conduct of the second leg of 2019 elections. He said they want to use farmers/herders crisis, armed political thugs and ethnic militias to perpetrate acts of violence, including bombings, as a way to truncate the polls. Buratai made this assertion yesterday in his opening remarks at a meeting with principal staff officers, general officers commanding, operational commanders and directors at Army Headquarters, Abuja, He said: “Recent security threat assessment and analysis of the coming elections showed that politicians have made plans to use all means available to truncate the peaceful conduct of the elections. “There are indications of their intent to take advantage of and to use the farmers/herders crisis, armed political thugs and ethnic militias to perpetrate acts of violence including bombings. “Some of them intend to infiltrate domestic staff of political opponents, employ mercenaries to carry out acts of assassinations, use the social media for smear campaigns, hate speech and spread fake news in a bid to disrupt the peaceful conduct of the elections.” The army chief urged all commanders to be tough on those planning to rig or disrupt electoral process and ensure they abort such missions. He further banned the use of military escort for politicians or retired military officers on Saturday, the day of the forthcoming  governorship, state assembly and FCT Area Council polls. Buratai noted that governorship election is the one that touches on the interest of the people at the grassroots and could be volatile as desperate politicians would employ and deploy all means to outwit one another to gain control of power. He stated that though the Nigerian Army received accolades from both international and local observers, including the media, for its role in ensuring a peaceful environment for the conduct of the presidential/National Assembly elections, there were still some lapses resulting in the death of an officer and three soldiers, an incidence that needs to be  reviewed and corrected. “Commanders must be vigilant to ensure that cases of infiltrations to scare off voters are not allowed. Hobnobbing and fraternisation with politicians during this election period is totally prohibited. “Commanders must ensure robust and extensive patrols are carried out to cover all flashpoints; enforce the no-movement restrictions and carry out thorough searches of vehicles and persons. “Commanders must deal decisively with any electoral crime or action such as electoral thuggery, snatching of ballot boxes, illegal possession of electoral materials and firearms as well as other crimes that would mar the smooth conduct of the election. “Commanders must ensure that no retired military officer is allowed to use Service weapons hitherto authorised for their personal safety during the period of the election. “Commanders must ensure that troops remain on ground to counter and deal ruthlessly with any post-election violence. “Commanders must work in conjunction with the police and other security agencies to dominate the environment to forestall any form of violence.” The army chief urged the Commanders to ensure that troops under their watch act according to the Rules of Engagement and within the code of conduct as well as have respect for fundamental human rights in the performance of their assigned roles, just as they must remain neutral in the entire process. “Commanders must ensure troops under their command remain apolitical, neutral and should deal ruthlessly with electoral law breakers as well as avoid compromise with any politician and political party,” he said Speaking further, the COAS stated that Army was not unaware of some reports of alleged compromises by some of  its personnel during the elections, noting that a high-powered panel had been set up to investigate the matter. “We have received complaints from some stakeholders, major political parties, governors of Bayelsa, Oyo and Ogun states of allegation of misconduct as well as unprofessional conduct by some of our personnel. “Unfortunately some other states have gone to the press with unsubstantiated allegation without resort to the NA leadership. Nonetheless, all these complaints are noted and will be addressed appropriately. “A high-powered committee had been convened and instituted to investigate all cases of alleged misconduct by troops arising from the 2019 general elections. This is aimed at ensuring that all cases are thoroughly looked into for the purpose of dispensation of justice and to uphold Nigerian Army’s credibility, professionalism and apolitical stand,” he said. …UK To Ban Politicians Inciting Violence The British High Commission has warned those who incite electoral violence on social media that they could be denied access into the United Kingdom (UK). Catriona Laing, British high commissioner to Nigeria, said politicians who incite or execute violence during the 2019 elections in Nigeria could have their visas banned and foreign assets forfeited. “We were concerned by reports of high levels of violence in some states across Nigeria during the recent presidential elections, including reports of violent clashes involving the military in Rivers State. “We condemn all acts of violence and call for those responsible to be brought to justice. We call on all actors, including political parties and security personnel, to work together to provide a peaceful environment for Nigerians to vote on March 9. “We remind all actors that anyone involved in violence or inciting violence, including on social media, could face restrictions on their ability to travel to the UK,” the high commission said. It called for credible, peaceful elections on March 9 and encouraged Nigerians to turn out and vote on Saturday March 9 in elections for state governorships and State Houses of Assembly. The high commission also expressed hope that the challenges and obstacles noticed in the last round of elections had been addressed, even as it commended electoral officers for their efforts. “These elections are an important opportunity for citizens to exercise their democratic rights and choose their leaders. We hope that the causes of logistical issues on the February 23 election have been identified and addressed. “We commend INEC staff and the National Youth Service Corps, who play a critical role in the delivery of elections, often in difficult circumstances. We hope that they will be given every support and protection necessary to ensure the smooth and peaceful delivery of elections free from fear of intimidation or interference in the electoral process,” it stated, adding that the UK would again send observer teams across Nigeria on  March 9 as part of its efforts to support Nigerian democracy.