President Muhammadu Buhari has unveiled the sterling qualities of Nigerians who will make his next cabinet as his admirers within and outside the country continued to celebrate his victory at the February 23, 2019 presidential election. Instead of using extraneous factors and other considerations being canvassed by some citizens and groups, Buhari has declared that “only persons with integrity and the interest of Nigeria in their hearts and actions” will make the cabinet expected to come on stream in June this year. The president spoke at a victory dinner organised by his wife, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, at the State House Conference Centre, Abuja, at the weekend. In a statement issued yesterday by the media aide to the president’s wife, Suleiman Haruna, he quoted Buhari as vowing not to betray the confidence Nigerians reposed in him through their renewal of his mandate at the last election. Buhari said that his victory was a sign that Nigerians were satisfied with the change that his government heralded in the country as well as their confidence in his promise of its consolidation as idealised by the “Next Level” campaign. The president commented on the abuse of office that Nigeria went through during past governments and explained why it took him long to reposition the country. He promised to use the next four years to conclude the programmes and projects he had started. Buhari also recognised the significant role women and the youths played during the campaign and the election proper, and promised to engage them more in his second tenure. In her remarks, Mrs. Buhari expressed happiness at the overwhelming support Nigerians gave the president during the election and assured them that her husband would use his second term in office to serve their interests, especially by addressing the huge gap between the rich and the poor in Nigeria. She said: “I wish I can invite all the 15 million Nigerians that voted for Mr. President to this dinner, but no place can accommodate you all. So, let me say thank you and assure you that you made the right choice.” Mrs. Buhari also thanked the Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team, which she said, complemented the APC Presidential Campaign Council, as well as the Buhari Support Organisation. “Specifically, I wish to express my appreciation to the women and youth presidential campaign team that I initiated to complement the efforts of the APC Presidential Campaign Council. “As you all know by now, the aim of setting up the team was to get women and youths, who form the majority of the electorate, involved in all the campaign activities across the country,” she said, adding that “this was a successful experiment that will be recognised in our nation’s political history.” Mrs. Buhari called on all the president’s campaign groups to raise the flag on government whenever they observe the need to do so. The event was attended by the wife of the Vice President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo. Goodwill messages were delivered by APC stalwarts including former inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Suleiman Abba, former Lagos State military administrator, Brig-Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd), Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin. Dame Pauline Tallen, Princess Adegoke Adefulire, and Hajiya Najaatu Bala Mohammed.