ANKELI EMMANUEL captures the intrigues ahead of the supplementary governorship election in Sokoto State. The recent governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections, held across the country was intriguing but froth with challenges. While some states are done with the process and the governor’s-elect beginning to adjust to the reality of the task of how to govern in the next 4 years, some others states are still locked in the vagaries of the electioneering process. Amongst such states whose coast is not clear yet is Sokoto. The state governorship election was declared inconclusive by the returning officer, Professor Fatima Batulu Mukhtar of the Federal University, Dutse, Jigawa State. In the build up to the election in the state, many felt it would be a done deal for the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) considering its magnificent performance at the Presidential and National Assembly elections. For those with this notion, if APC could win three Senatorial districts of the state and win almost nine of the 11 National Assembly seats, then it is as good as saying winning subsequent elections would be as easy as child’s play. However, the turn of events proved many wrong, except for few political realists who utterly dismissed insinuations that the presidential elections might not necessarily translate into automatic victory for the APC in Sokoto governorship election. Those pundits gave reasons for their reservations. Chief amongst their reasons is that the APC in the state would go basking in the euphoria of presidential victory and forget extensive mobilisation for the governorship elections. These pundits also holds firmly that, rather than marketing the party’s governorship candidate, attention of the electorate were fixated on Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko who is the leader of the party in the state. For these group of pundits,  Sen Wamakko’s popularity  would surely face severe scrutiny from the electorate, especially from those sympathetic to the ruling PDP for political mileage erroneously misinterpreted the Senator’s humble advise to traditional leaders to be apolitical as a straight threat to the institution. Much as the senator explained how well he held the traditional institutions in high esteem and would not contemplate saying anything to degrade the cherished traditional leaders, some have made up their minds on using that as one of their strongest point to demarket the APC. Worried by the scenario, the APC in a press conference addressed by its state publicity secretary, Bello Danchadi, re-emphasised that his party, the APC has never said anything about deposing the Sultan, contrary to news making the round in the state ahead of the elections. Though, the explanation came handy it however, did not make any difference in the minds of those whose mission was simply to cash in on that misinterpretation for political advantage. Aside that, having suffered defeat in the presidential elections, the PDP went back to the drawing table and went all out like a football team struggling to evade relegation. The party embarked on aggressive nocturnal campaigns with frantic appeal to electorate to consider chain of factors ahead of the governorship election. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday on what electorate based their calculations on before supporting Tambuwal’s re-election, an insider who preferred anonymity said,  all calculations were in his favour. According to him, there is an established tradition in the state in the spirit of fairness and equity that governing the state should rotate amongst the three (3) senatorial districts so that none will have undue advantage over the rest. “In keeping to this gentleman aggrement, Alhahi Attahiru Dalhatu Bafarawa from Sokoto East senatorial district after spending two terms as the governor of the state between 1999-2007 stepped aside for contenders from Sokoto North senatorial district. “In the contest, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko of the PDP defeated Maigari Dingyadi whom had Bafarawa’s backing and became the governor from 2007 to 2015. He also spent two terms of four years each. “Now, Wamakko in recognition of this gentleman’s understanding brought Tambuwal from Sokoto South Senatorial district in 2015. While Tambuwal or the zone are supposed to enjoy two terms of four years each, political heavyweights want to turn the table at the middle of the game because Tambuwal defected back from the APC to the PDP where they were all members before 2015. “And most painfully, rather than bringing somebody from that senatorial district to contest against Tambuwal to guarantee equity of eight years as enjoyed by the two senatorial districts, Tambuwal’s main challenger, Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto happens to come from the north again. “Bearing this in mind, electorate from the South senatorial district went out on sympathy votes and those of East Senatorial district came out on protest votes against APC. “For them in the East, any attempt to allow APC candidate become the next governor means the region would be having another eight years before power gets to them.  And for them, supporting Tambuwal means their region would only have to wait for four years. “And honestly, these reasons as put forward by many truly helped in marketing the Tambuwal re-election project” said the source. Still, with Wamakko’s political ‘SAI ALU’ political follower ship is so strong and present in every corner of the state, PDP’s game plan never had the desired victory as expected. The election was so close that it was declared inconclusive even though Tambuwal leads Alhaji Aliyu Ahmed Sokoto of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with just 3468 votes in the inconclusive election. And for pundits, this therefore means a 50-50 chance for either of the two to emerge as the winner after supplementary elections. After all, the lead margin was lower than the 75,403 votes cancelled in 136 polling units of 22 local government areas of the state. After having carefully studied the scores by all the governorship candidates of the various political parties, the state’s returning officer, Professor Fatima Batulu Muktar said the candidates of the PDP had the highest number of votes cast. And followed by that of the APC, adding however that, the margin of win is lower than the cancelled votes and as such she cannot declare winner in the election. Professor Muhktar said, “Having observed the scores of each candiate, and the gap between that of the PDP and APC,  I cannot conclude this exercise but to declare it inconclusive and INEC will have to take a decision on this.” She pointed this out at about 3am on Monday, March 11.” As things stands now in the seat of the Caliphate, 75,403 electorate will decide the fate of the state on March 23 when the supplementary poll holds.  While the spotlight is primed on the 75,403 electorates, the expectation on the electoral umpire and security agencies are also instructive. They will be expected to uphold the tenets of neutrality and operate above the insinuations that have trailed the outcome of the polls. This however comes in light of instances that have shown that inconclusive elections are often won by the party with the federal might. Only time will tell in Sokoto.