The Supreme Court yesterday, fixed May 17, 2019, to deliver judgement on the suit filed by the Cross River State government seeking the setting aside of the six-count charge of non-assets declaration against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen. The attorney-general and commissioner of justice of Cross River State on behalf of the state government challenged the suspension and trial of Justice Onnoghen at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT). The suit dated January 22, 2019, and marked SC/45/2019 has the Federal Republic of Nigeria (FRN) and the attorney-general of the federation (AGF) as defendants. In its defence, the federal government asked the apex court to dismiss the suit as the plaintiff lacks the locus standi to institute it. When the matter came up for hearing yesterday, counsel to the plaintiff, Locius Nwosu (SAN), adopted his brief of argument and urged the court to grant the reliefs sought by the state government. The counsel to the federal government and the solicitor-general of the federation, Dayo Akpata, in his notice of preliminary objection, asked the court to dismiss the suit on the ground that the plaintiff lacked the locus standi to institute the action. In a notice of preliminary objections filed by attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), he challenged the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the matter on the grounds that “there is ‎no dispute between the defendants in this suit and the plaintiff as envisaged under Section 232(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) He contended that “the subject matter of this suit is personal to Justice Onnoghen Nkanu Walter Samuel and does not in any way affects the Cross River State government as to confer it with the locus to institute this suit. “The reliefs and claims made herein by the plaintiff are not for the benefits of Cross River State but personal to Justice Onnoghen,” he argued. Akpata also informed the court that the subject matter of the suit is already before the Court of Appeal which has reserved judgement. He submitted that the action of the state government amounted to “forum shopping and an abuse of court process.” But Nwosu insisted that the case of his client is different from the appeal filed by Justice Onnoghen at the Court of Appeal. “My lords, the suit is not about Justice Onnoghen but about the interpretation of the constitution. “It is for the interpretation of the provisions of the 1999 Constitution, particularly sections 4,5,6, 153(1), 158(1), paragraph 21(b) of Part 1 of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the purported filing of the charge in No. CCT/ABJ/01/19 between FGN vs Hon. Justice Onnoghen Nkanu Walter Samuel before the Code of Conduct Tribunal against a judicial officer who in this case is the chief justice of Nigeria, without any formal complaint having been made against him to the National Judicial Council (NJC) robbed the tribunal of jurisdiction to try the charge, and all the proceedings relating thereto are null and void, a nullity,” he said. After taking all the arguments for and against the suit, the seven-man panel of justices of the Supreme Court led by Justice Bode Rhodes Vivour accordingly adjourned the case till May 17, 2019, for judgement. ‎Other justices of the panel included Justices Olukayode Ariwoola, Mary Peter Odili, Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, Justice Ejembi Eko, Musa Dattijo Mohammed and Justice Dauda Sidi Bage.