The management of the Ethiopian Airline has confirmed that two Nigerians are among the 157 passengers and eight crew that died in the Ethiopian Airlines 320 that crashed on Sunday. The aircraft was en route from Addis Ababa to Nairobi with 149 passengers and eight crew on board. An official of the airline who preferred anonymity said that Amb. Abiodun Bashua and Prof Pius Adesanmi were two Nigerians that have their identity confirmed in the crash. “Prof Pius Adesanmi was carrying a Canadian passport. ”The other Nigerian had a UN passport. “I’ve just been informed now that we lost a high profile Nigerian, Amb Abiodun Bashua in that crash. ”Bashua was the former UN and AU Deputy Joint Special Representative in Darfur, Sudan. A complete gentleman. May God rest his soul,” the official said. A source from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also confirmed that Bashua was on board of the ill-fated flight. The source added that Bashua was a retired Ambassador and on contract with United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA). The Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Geoffrey Onyeama has condoled with the families of Amb Bashua and Prof Adesanmi. The airline management said in a statement that an Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 crashed yesterday morning en route from Addis Ababa to Nairobi with 149 passengers and eight crew believed to be on board. “We hereby confirm that our scheduled flight ET 302 from Addis Ababa to Nairobi was involved in an accident today,” the airline said. The Late Ambassador Bashua, who hails from Lagos State, was born in Ibadan in 1951 and joined the Nigerian Foreign Service in 1976. During his career, the late Ambassador served in different capacities both at Headquarters and Foreign Missions such as: Vienna, Austria, Abidjan, Cote d’ivoire and Tehran, Iran among others. As a seasoned UN Expert, he had extensive experience in several United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa. He joined the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) in 2009 and was appointed Deputy Joint Special Representative for the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur in 2014 by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. He also served as Secretary to the Conference of Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Adesanmi, popular Nigerian professor and columnist based in Canada, hails from Isanlu, in Yagba East Local Government area of Kogi State.