The National Peace Committee led by former head of state, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd), yesterday met with President Muhammadu Buhari to table before him the grievances  of his main challenger in last Saturday’s presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Atiku, who was defeated in the 23rd February 2019 presidential election is the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He had vehemently rejected the outcome of the election, alleging irregularities and vowing to challenge the result in court. The meeting, which was held at the presidential villa, Abuja, had the Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Diocese, Matthew Kukah, and the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, John Cardinal Onaiyekan, in attendance among other members of the committee. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that, on Thursday, the  Peace Committee had met with Atiku and other leaders of the PDP in Abuja, including the vice presidential candidate, Peter Obi; PDP national chairman, Uche Secondus; Senate President Bukola Saraki, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. The meetings are seen as  moves to douse what the committee has described as rising tension in the country as a result of the outcome of last Saturday’s presidential election. Speaking to State House correspondents after the meeting, General Abdulsalami remarked that the presidential election result had raised a lot of dust and that people feel aggrieved. He said, “Yesterday l met the PDP presidential candidate and his party in order to listen to their grievances and what they think has gone wrong, to ensure that, really, there is peace. Our concern is about Nigeria. “And we are here today to see his Excellency, the president, in order to relay the fears and concerns of the PDP, and Mr. President listened to us and has taken note of what we told him. “Atiku presented his grievances and his observations; he did not present any conditions, he gave his complaints, which we have come to presented and discussed with Mr. President to see what can be done.” When asked about his message to Nigerians as the committee works to achieve peace, he said, “Well, Nigerians should please, on behalf of this country and all of us, regardless, we need peace. This country is very, very important to all of us. “We are not talking about self-interest, we are talking about the interest of the country. I keep saying, whenever there is violence, we are not going to see violence in Ikoyi, in the Villa and you will not find violence in the various government houses in this country. “It is always the poor men that get to kill themselves and so on. So, please, yes, as much as we have grievances, l am glad that the PDP said they are going to court to challenge the process. l think this is the right way to go about it, and l hope and pray that we will maintain this.” However, Atiku has called for the unconditional release of all those illegally arrested and detained for political reasons. He also called for the non-deployment of the military in compliance with constitutional provisions and the subsisting judgement of the court. The PDP candidate, according to a statement signed by his media aide, Paul Ibe, stated this at the meeting between the PDP and the Abdulsalami-led committee at his residence in Abuja on Thursday. The statement reads: “Atiku Abubakar and his team reaffirmed that the presidential election of 23 February was the worst in the history of the country since the return to democracy in 1999. “According to him, the sham election was marked by militarisation of the process, vote suppression, intimidation and collaboration of security agencies, INEC and the ruling party to subvert the will of Nigerians. “Ahead of the March 9 governorship and state house of assembly elections, the Atiku Abubakar team called for the unconditional release of all those illegally arrested and detained for political reasons. They also called for the non deployment of the military in compliance with constitutional provisions and the subsisting judgement of the court. “The issue of Atiku Abubakar and his party’s recourse to legitimate actions to reclaim his stolen mandate was not discussed at the meeting. “Atiku Abubakar restates that, as a democrat, he will follow laid down constitutional and democratic procedures to challenge the electoral malfeasance committed by APC in cohort with INEC. “Atiku Abubakar further urges Nigerians to come out enmasse and vote in the March 9 gubernatorial and state house of assembly elections for the PDP candidates and stay to defend their votes up to collation point,” the statement said. …No deal with Peace Committee to halt legal action – PDP Meanwhile, the opposition PDP yesterday insisted on going to  court to challenge the outcome of the presidential election. It also dismissed claims that it gave conditions to the National Peace Committee (NPC) if it was to abandon the legal option. The party’s national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus,  made these comments at a press conference in Abuja yesterday while speaking on the meeting between the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and National Peace Committee led by Gen Abdulsalami Abubakar. He clarified that the party did not give any conditions to the committee, asserting that peace can only be achieved if the cases of injustice arising from the elections are addressed. He said that the committee only asked them for their grievances and told them that they would also visit the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as well. On their meeting with Peace Committee, Secondus said, “When they came, they met with us and they requested us to please state our grievances. “There was no condition. Initially, we were not to talk with them because a decision had been taken to go to court, but because of the personalities involved, we said OK, let’s just talk. “There was no request of any condition. We made it clear that unless the injustices are addressed, there is no room for peace.  It is only when you address the injustice that you can now sit down for peace. “So, whatever interpretation that was done by anybody, let it be clear to anybody that we did not five condition; they did not request it.” According to the PDP chairman  the Abdulsalami committee asked the party to state what really happened in the election “and we told them how the military took over the election and conducted the election in favour of APC and INEC collusion.” On the party’s resolve to go to court, he said, “We will go to court – nobody will stop us from going to court – and bring all the facts both the international observers and some people have not seen. “We will present them at the courts and I believe that justice will be done at the courts, because if we continue to suppress injustice and go sentimental, the country will continue to pile up gun powder that will explode one day. “So much injustice has been done in this country and if we allow it and it continue to pile, nobody knows what will happen. So, that’s why we decided, as good citizens, law-abiding people who believe in rule of law, that we will go to court. “It is our responsibility as good citizens to bring this to the public and to the Nigerian people and to go to court. There is  a provision that provides for anybody who has any grievance to go to court, so we are going to court.” The PDP chairman, who lamented the role of the military in the course of the election, said the PDP was not at war with the military. “They should not be involved in electoral matters “ he said. On the endorsement of the election by foreign observers,  Secondus alleged that they had been intimidated by the APC-led administration and this compromised their reports. He said, “We are not going to depend on approaching the courts on the comments of observers that were threatened. They were threatened and, so, what do you expect them to say? They have to go home with their lives. They were threatened and silenced.” He added that the international observers might not have the information that the party had accumulated so far.