Hundreds of residents in Nembe community of Beyelsa State have fled their homes and business premises as Nigeria’s major oil pipeline, the Nembe Creek Trunk, exploded, The police authorities and key operators in the oil and gas sector confirmed the incident amidst suspicions of sabotage. The affected pipeline with capacity of 150,000 barrels per day runs from an oil terminal in Bonny to Bayelsa State. Initial reports indicated that the disaster occurred last Friday, but industry sources said that it was on Saturday, March 2, 2019. The state police command spokesman, Asinim Butswat, who confirmed the explosion, told journalists that, “we have not been officially briefed on the incident, but it occurred.” Butswat said that “no lives were lost as a result of the explosion and we can’t confirm if it was an attack by militants or an equipment failure unless the people managing the facility go there to determine the cause.” However, the management of Aiteo, the handlers of the pipeline, explained that the fire incident occurred on March 2, 2019, when an explosion happened within the vicinity of Nembe Creek Well 7, behind Mile 1 Community in Bayelsa State. Like the police, Aiteo said that no life was lost in the explosion. In a statement it issued on the incident, Aiteo said that despite initial challenges, the company’s operations team was able to access the well head area when the fire had completely died down on early hours of Saturday. Aiteo said that preliminary investigations confirmed that there were no fatalities; human incidents or damage to community property. It said: “All the wells and facilities in the immediate vicinity have been inspected and secured. This incident did not occur at or involve any part of the NCTL or other pipelines. It is important to note that prior to this incident, all facilities have been shut down since 28th February, 2019, due to NCTL outage. Accordingly, any account suggesting that this incident arose from or affected any pipelines is wholly inaccurate and misleading.” Aiteo said that full investigations to determine the cause of the fire and, in particular, to determine whether it may have been caused by third-party infractions, are ongoing, adding that the investigations are being pursued with the utmost urgency and given the highest priority. “We are continuing to work with all the relevant authorities to restore full functionality to all the relevant installations and affected areas. In the time being, we express our gratitude to all our stakeholders for your continuing support and understanding whilst urging calm and vigilance,” the company said. Nigeria Loses Over $16bn To Non-Review Of PSCs Meanwhile, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has said that the country lost at least $16billion in 10 years (2008 – 2017) due to the non-review of the 1993 Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) with oil companies. The extractive industry watchdog yesterday said that a quantitative study it carried out in conjunction with Open Oil (a Berlin-based extractive sector transparency group) showed that the losses could be up to $28billion, if after the review, the Nigeria federation was allowed to share profit from two additional licenses. In its latest publication titled: ‘‘1993 PSCs: The Steep Cost of Inaction’’, NEITI called for an urgent review of the PSCs to stem the huge revenue losses to the federation. Such a review it said was particularly important for the country because oil production from PSCs had surpassed production from Joint Ventures (JVs). Thus, productions from PSCs now contribute the largest share to federation revenue. On how the report arrived at the figures, NEITI said that the study after compiling data from the seven offshore fields on oil production, oil prices, cost of development, operating costs, decommissioning costs, and the applicable fiscal regimes, adopted financial modelling, the standard methodology in the industry, to estimate revenue. NEITI further said that the study showed that the refusal of the government to review the terms of operating Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts even when it was necessary to do so, cost the nation huge revenue lost. NEITI said: “The implication is that revenue would have increased from $73.78 billion to $89.81 billion if the review had simply been done using the 2005 fiscal regime. This implies a difference in revenue of $16.03 billion. “Also, revenue would have increased from $73.78 billion to $102.39 billion if the review had been done using the 2005 fiscal regime and government shared in profit oil in Oil Mining Lease (OML) 127 and OML 130 Production Sharing Agreement (PSA). This implies a difference of $28.61 billion. “In summary, the results showed that between 2008 and 2017, lost revenue to the federation owing to failure to review the PSC terms was between $16.03 billion and $28.61 billion depending on which scenario one adopts,” NEITI said. Putting the losses in project terms, NEITI reported that the lower threshold loss of $16.03billion to the Federation Account would have funded the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail line put at between $14billion and $15billion. Other projects that the lost revenue could have been used to fund include the “Mambila Power Plant of 3,050 MW at $5.72 billion, while the estimated cost of the Ibadan-Ilorin-Minna-Kano Standard Gauge Line is $6.1 billion. The combined cost of these projects is $11.82 billion, which is less than the lower threshold of estimated losses…. the Calabar-Lagos Railine ($11 billion), Fourth Mainland Bridge ($1.4 billion), Badagry Deep Water Port Complex ($1.6 billion), and Lekki Deep Seaport ($1.2 billion)” the publication revealed. Meanwhile, the higher threshold estimate of $28.61 billion can fund 99 per cent of the proposed federal government budget for 2019. To curb the bleeding, NEITI asked the federal government through its appropriate agencies to commence an urgent process to review the PSC agreement with oil companies now; t the government should note that the affected contractors have expressed willingness to negotiate these terms and therefore they and the state governments should be carried along in the review process, and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) should follow international best practices and make the contracts with oil companies public in other to ensure transparency and maximum government take, as Nigerians can properly scrutinise such contracts and draw attention to areas of improvement. The publication by NEITI is consistent with its mandate of ensuring that it monitors and ensures that all payments due to the federal government from all extractive industry companies, including taxes, royalties, dividends, bonuses, penalties, levies and such like, are duly made. According to the report: “Between 1998 and 2005, total production by PSC companies was below 100,000,000 barrels per year while JV companies produced over 650,000,000 barrels per year’’. By 2017, total production by PSC companies was 305,800,000 barrels, which was 44.32 per cent of total production. Total production by JV companies was 212,850,000 barrels, representing 30.84 per cent of total production.” NEITI noted that the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts provided for a review of the terms on two conditions. The first review was to be triggered if oil prices exceeded $20 per barrel. Section 16 (1) of the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts specifies that: “The provisions of the Act shall be subject to review to ensure that if the price of crude oil at any time exceeds $20 per barrel, real terms, the share of the government of the federation in the additional revenue shall be adjusted under the Production Sharing Contracts to such extent that the Production Sharing Contracts shall be economically beneficial to the government of the federation.” NEITI observed that this review should have been activated in 2004 when oil prices exceeded the $20 per barrel mark. Although the review was not done in 2004, the judgement of the Supreme Court in October 2018 had mandated the attorney-general of the federation (AGF) to work with the governments of Akwa Ibom, Rivers and Bayelsa States to recover all lost revenues accruable to the federation with effect from the respective times when the price of crude oil exceeded $20 per barrel. The second review was to be activated 15 years following the commencement of the PSC Act.