The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have expressed divergent views following the decision of the  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to conduct a rerun election in Bauchi State. While the PDP hailed INEC for “doing the right thing”, the APC rejected the decision, arguing that “INEC is not empowered to reverse any decision taken at the collation centre by the returning officer appointed for that purpose.” INEC had, in a statement issued over the weekend by its national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr Festus Okoye, said it would not be conducting a rerun in Bauchi, adding that the process earlier started would be completed. INEC had earlier announced that it would conduct rerun elections in Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Kano, Plateau and Sokoto states where it had declared the polls inconclusive. The commission has 21 days to complete elections in areas or states where the processes were declared inconclusive. The commission, however, reversed itself, saying that it would continue with the collation of results in Bauchi on Tuesday The statement reads: “On the 12 day of March 2019, INEC considered a report submitted by the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Bauchi State on the disruption of the Collation process at the Tafawa Balewa Collation Centre which led to the cancelation of results for the entire local government.” “The Commission found that there are issues that need further investigation and set up a committee for that purpose: The findings of the Committee are as follows: “The Governorship and State Assembly Elections were held on the 9th March, 2019 in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area and the votes scored by candidates were announced at the Polling Units and collated at the 11 Registration Areas of the Local Government. “Halfway into the local government collation, armed gangs attacked the collation centre and destroyed the Local Government Result Sheet (EC8C) and some collated results from the Registration Areas. The results of 7 out of 11 Registration Areas for Governorship and 6 out of 11 for State Assembly elections were affected. “INEC guidelines provide that where violent disruption affects collation in this manner, results should be regenerated from duplicate copies on a replacement result sheet. “The collation officer, under pressure from party agents who could not wait for the arrival of a replacement result sheet, decided to collate the result on an available RA result sheet instead of the replacement LGA result sheet. “When the result was presented at the State Governorship Collation Centre, the Returning Officer rejected the regenerated result because it was on a wrong result sheet. “The Investigation Committee established that the result in Polling Units and Registration Areas are available and in safe custody. “The Investigation Committee also established that the number of cancelled votes for the four Polling Units in Ningi Local Government Area, which was recorded as 25,330 in form EC40G (1), was incorrect. The actual figure is 2,533. Consequently, the Commission has taken the following decisions: “Approved the resumption and conclusion of the collation of results of Tafawa Balewa LGA in relation to the governorship election as the duplicate and original Registration Area results are available.” “Approved the resumption, conclusion and announcement of the result of the Tafawa Balewa State Constituency.” It also approved the appointment of a new Collation/Returning Officer for Tafawa Balewa LGA to continue and conclude the collation process in place of the original collation officer who withdrew from the exercise citing threats to her life and those of her family members. “The collation process for Tafawa Balewa LGA will resume on Tuesday, 19th March 2019. The Commission directed that the error in the total number of cancelled votes in four polling units in Ningi LGA should be corrected from 25,330 to 2,533,” it added. On Rivers State, the INEC statement said: “On the 10th of March 2019, the Commission suspended all electoral processes in Rivers State having determined that there was widespread disruption of collation of results of the elections conducted on the 9th day of March 2019. Subsequently, the Commission set up a Fact-Finding Committee to assess the situation and report back within 48 hours. “The Commission met on the 15th day of March 2019 and considered the report of the committee and established the following: That the governorship and State Assembly elections took place in most of the polling units and results were announced. “That the results from 17 local governments out of 23 are available and are in the Commission’s custody. That the Declaration and Returns for 21 State Constituencies out of 32 were made prior to the suspension. “That collation centres were invaded by some soldiers and armed gangs resulting in the intimidation and unlawful arrest of election officials, thereby disrupting the collation process.” The Commission frowned at the role played by some soldiers and armed gangs in Rivers State which disrupted the collation process and tried to subvert the will of the people. “INEC is committed to expeditious completion of the collation process where results of the elections have been announced,” it added …APC rejects INEC’s decision The ruling APC has, however, rejected the decision taken by  the electoral body concerning election results from Tafawa Balewa LGA. At a press conference in Bauchi yesterday, the party described the action taken by the INEC as null and void. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Uba Ahmed Nana, explained that the position taken by INEC contravened the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended. “Considering the letters and spirit of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999 as amended), and the INEC Guidelines for 2019 General Elections, INEC is not empowered to reverse any decision taken at the Collation Centre by the returning officer appointed for that purpose. “Such decisions can only be reversed by a court of law, especially when INEC cannot approbate and reprobate,” the party stated. The party also accused the Festus Okoye-led committee of denying it fair hearing as its agent were not invited during the hearing to ascertain the circumstances leading to the cancellation of the Tafawa Balewa LG election result. “The composition of the committee is also questionable as the committee chairman, Festus Okoye Esq, is a close ally of and ex-personal Solicitor of Hon. Yakubu Dogara of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),” it said. PDP Thumbs Up INEC The opposition PDP has, however, backed the decision taken by the electoral body not to conduct a rerun election in Bauchi. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Hamza Akuyam,  said: “As we told you from the beginning,  our party won this election. To our party, INEC has done what is right. “They have done justice. We cried foul and they set up a committee to investigate and the committee has done justice. To us,  we still have confidence in INEC. What we don’t have confidence in are the police and other security agents who were compromised in all these issues. They knew what happened when these people went to the collation centre and vandalised it, they were there. “And we were surprised that even the papers that the police usually held were also vandalised. When INEC asked them, they said they were all vandalised. Can you imagine somebody going to the police station to vandalise the papers? “So,  we don’t have confidence in the Commissioner of police, we don’t have confidence in the Director of SSS.”