Mr Babachir Lawal, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), has urged APC governorship candidate Gov. Muhammad Bindow to honorably concede defeat in the interest of peace in Adamawa state. Lawal was reacting to the release of delimitation details of polling units for governorship re-run election fixed for 23 March as released by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in the state The delimitation details signed by Bakari Musa, Administrative Secretary, for the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Kassim Gaidam, revealed that the total number of registered voters in the 44 polling units stands 34,101 against 40,948 being speculated. The details was sequel to the demand by People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as condition for the re-run elections in the affected units. Lawal noted that, conceding defeat by APC candidate Governorship to give peace a chance, in the state, is aimed at strengthening democratic norms, adding that another election is only four years away. “The only honorable thing to do is for my party’s candidate, Governor Bindow to concede and give peace a chance. “Therefore  let’s not allow elections to cause trouble between brothers, Bindow can go back to the drawing board and launch himself back.he maintained. Boni Haruna p, former gov. In the state added, “The action by INEC  to declare Adamawa election as inconclusive is not only absurd, but unteneble, most unfortunate and unacceptable. “It is our understanding that if elections were cancelled at polling units or wards collation centers, it stands cancelled. “We therefore find it curious for the electoral body to resurrect the issue of elections results that have been cancelled at the polling units to justify its action of declaring the governorship elections as inconclusive at the level of state Collation or declaration of results. Wafarniyi Theman APC Secretary, said governorship candidate for the Movement for the Restoration and Defence of Democracy (MRDD), Rev Eric had a case, over absence of his party logo on the ballot paper. Theman said the MRDD had the right to sue because he had deprived the right to vote and be voted for, because because he validly entered the race. It would be recalled a Yola ola high court had granted injunction restrained INEC from conducting supplementary election, slated for 23 March in 44 units. The REC in the state Barrister Kassim Gaidam said the commission would go ahead with the conduct of the March 23 supplementary polls in the state. Gaidam who cited sec 87 sub (10), of the electoral act to support his point.