Low turnout of voters and pockets of violence leading to some deaths were major challenges in yesterday’s governorship and state assembly elections across the country. There were also cases of ballot box snatching and vote buying in many parts of the country, with votes selling between N500 and N5,000. In Abuja, elections in the six area councils of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) witnessed low turnout of voters. Our reporter, who visited some of the polling units at Garki village, Apo Resettlement, LEA Primary School, Pigba, near Apo Mechanic village, Kabusa and Life Camp in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), and Dutsen Alhaji in Bwari area council, saw a handful of residents queuing up to cast their votes. In some of the polling stations such as Kabusa (Tipper Garage) and Life Camp polling units, the electoral officers were waiting for voters when LEADERSHIP Sunday visited the areas. At Government Secondary School, Kabusa, voters were seen waiting for the arrival of voting materials at about 11am. A resident of Apo Resettlement told our reporter that the voter apathy being experienced during the area council election might not be unconnected with the outcome of the last presidential election. “You see, many residents of this area have been demoralised by the outcome of last presidential election. This is because it was not what they expected that was announced. So, this has lowered their interest in coming out today to vote,” he said. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday, the FCT Commandant of Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Solomon Iyamu, commended the peaceful way residents conducted themselves during the area council election. Iyamu noted that the election was generally peaceful based on the report he got from his field officers, adding that many residents actually came out to perform their civic duties of voting for their choice of candidates. He noted that the existing synergy among the security agencies such as the Directorate of State Services (DSS), the police, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), the prisons service and the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) contributed to the relative peace in the territory. House Of Reps Member, Temitope Sugar, Shot Dead in Ibadan A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Temitoye Olatoye, was yesterday shot dead by unknown gunmen in Ibadan, Oyo State. Olatoye, popularly known as Sugar, was earlier rushed to the Accident and Emergency Unit of the University College Hospital in Ibadan before he was confirmed dead. A source at the hospital told our reporter that Olatoye was brought in at UCH in critical condition at about 5pm and later died at the intensive care unit later in the evening His death was confirmed to journalists by the Public Relations Unit of the UCH, Ibadan. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the lawmaker recently defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to contest Oyo Central Senatorial seat but lost to Senator Teslim Folarin.     2 Killed In Ondo Also, at least two people lost their lives during the governorship and House of Assembly elections held in Oba Akoko area of Ondo State. Our correspondent gathered that during the mayhem which claimed the lives of the victims, property worth millions of naira, including police station and vehicles, were destroyed. Witnesses said about 20 suspects had been arrested by police for allegedly snatching ballot boxes at Araromi area of Agbaluku Arigidi which led to the disruption of the election. It was further gathered that a vehicle belonging to a notable personality at Arigidi Akoko was destroyed by the hoodlums. Attempts by the hoodlums to snatch ballot boxes during the election at Oba Akoko led to a rampage by youths, leading to the violence. Commenting on the incident, the Police Area Commander for Ikare Akoko, ACP Razak Rauf, who led policemen to the town to restore order, described the vandalisation of police property as barbaric. He added that investigation had commenced and those found culpable would be prosecuted. Voters demand payment before voting in Kebbi Meanwhile, many voters in Nasarawa polling unit  002, Nagari College Ward, Kebbi State refused to cast their votes yesterday unless they were given money. Our correspondent observed that while voters at other polling units were busy casting their votes during the period, voters at the polling unit stood in groups waiting to be paid money before they would vote, with the INEC adhoc staff sitting calmly waiting for them. A voter, Aisha Bello, 33, told our correspondent that they would not vote until politicians came to settle them. “We cannot vote until they give us ‘Dumus” money. In other places, people are given from N1,000 to N3,000 before they vote, but here we learnt that the person who is responsible for sharing the money to us is nowhere to be found,” she said. At the polling unit which has a large number of female voters, they also expressed their anger that textile materials were not shared to them like in other places where women collected cash and textile materials before they voted. Etim Ekpo LG chair, 3 others injured as thugs hijack polling materials in A/Ibom Four persons including the lhairman of Etim Ekpo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Udeme Wilson Eduo, were in injured yesterday when hoodlums suspected to be political thugs hijacked ballot materials meant for Wards 8,9 and 10 during the governorship and state assembly elections. It was learnt that the hoodlums trailed the vehicle taking the materials from the Etim Ekpo LGA office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and intercepted it at Edem Akai before it reached the delivery points at Udianga Enem, the hometown of the council chairman. “When they trailed us dangerously into the polling units in the villages, we tried to escape but our vehicle hit a tree on the road and somersaulted. At that point, the hoodlums, accompanied by armed uniformed men, surrounded and trans-loaded the material to Saint Joseph Primary School, Iwukem. “It was at that point that the chairman followed them to retrieve the materials meant for his two units at Udianaga Enem (Ward 8) where the thugs descended on him and destroyed his official vehicle”, a polling officer who does not want his name in print told journalists in Etim Ekpo. It was learnt three youths, who tried to apprehend the thugs from fleeing with the materials were seriously injured by explosives detonated at the Iwukem junction, sending others to scamper for safety. Speaking to newsmen at his country home in Udianga, the chairman lamented that his was badly bruised by the thugs. “As I am talking to you now, my driver is missing and you can see bruises all over me and my car badly vandalised. You see everybody here waiting to cast their votes, but no ballot materials because the materials have been diverted,” he said. At Ikot Nya, unit 4, Edem Akai and other villages in Etim Ekpo Ward 10, women, youths and other registered voters protested what they described as disenfranchisement of a large number of voters in the area, alleging that election materials were diverted by thugs. At Ward 5, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) agent, Comrade Okpongete Ofiokse, told newsmen that “all ballot materials meant for unit 2 at Uruk Atai Nsidung were taken away by thugs.” The councillor representing the Ward, Hon. Ime Afia, said the unit had  a voting strength of 220 registered voters and expressed dismay at the diversion of polling materials even when the voters turned out in large numbers as early as 7am. However, voting went well in other places in the state, including Uyo, Ikot Abasi, Ibiono, Nsit Ibom, Nsit Ubium, Ikot Ekpene, Abak and Oruk Anam. The PDP national legal adviser, who voted in his polling unit at Utu Ikot Eboro, described the exercise as “very peaceful” and commended INEC for the orderly conduct of the exercise. He, however, called on INEC to ensure that polling results were cancelled in places where there were noticeable issues of malpractices and ballot box diversion by thugs especially in Etim Ekpo Ward 8,9 and 10. Minor infractions were reported around communities in Esit Eket where the former Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mr. Bassey Essien, was reported to have disrupted the exercise, using armed thugs. …7 FEARED Dead IN RIVERS No fewer than seven persons, including a former female local government chairman, Mrs. Emilia Gilbert Nte, were feared killed in parts of Rivers State between Friday night and yesterday when the governorship and House of Assembly elections were held. There was also low turnout of voters and widespread snatching of ballot boxes as well as destruction of other election materials in the state. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that Nte and a policeman were shot dead by unknown gunmen on Friday night at Unyeda community in Andoni LGA. It was also gathered that four persons were killed during a clash between two suspected cult groups in Luawii community in Khana LGA while a middle-aged man was shot dead by unknown gunmen at Akinima, headquarters of Ahoada-West LGA yesterday. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Nnamdi Omoni, said he could only confirm the death of a man in Akinima, but that He did not have the full details of circumstances surrounding his death. Our correspondent observed that cases of snatching of ballot boxes and destruction of other electoral materials by suspected thugs were recorded in Obio/Akpor, Khana, Ikwerre, Etche and Akuku-Toru LGAs of the state, among others. Meanwhile, Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, blamed the military for the low turnout of voters in various polling units across the state. Wike spoke with journalists shortly after casting his vote  at Unit 7, Ward 9, Rumueprikom in Obio/Akpor LGA of the state. The governor said: “A lot of people were disappointed with what happened during the last presidential and National Assembly elections. People are not happy and for fear of having problems, they stayed away. “The way the military acted discouraged people from turning out. The role of the military is to provide security, but it is unfortunate that they directly participate. Police have no role in the elections; the military appears to have taken over police duties.” He stated that despite the attempts to manipulate the election in some LGAs, he was sure of victory. “We are hoping that it will continue to be like this. Sometimes, the voting goes on smoothly, but the main thing is at the collation centres. “For now, we are satisfied and confident that we will win this  election very well. We are not afraid. We don’t know how many local government areas they can manipulate. But with reports we are getting, even though they are trying to be funny, we shall win.” On his part, a former member of the House of Representatives, Ogbonna Nwuke, said the election was largely peaceful in Etche LGA despite attempt by suspected political thugs to disrupt the process. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, Nwuke, who is also a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), denied allegations by some youths of Ward 5 and 6 in the area that he led some military men to hijack election materials in the two wards. He said: “It is not true. Rather, there were disagreements in Ward 6 in Etche LGA by youths from both sides who were in the mood to hijack election materials. “I am aware the soldiers came to reduce the tension. But the issue is that at a time like this, many people choose to put blame on security agents who are there to maintain law and order.” Speaking to newsmen after casting his vote at Unit 5, Ward 3, Elele in Ikwerre LGA of the state, the Commissioner for Information, Emma Okah, accused the military of going round polling units in the local government area to snatch ballot boxes. Okah said: “The problem in Ikwerre LGA started after voting. You can see soldiers moving from point to point aiding and abetting election malpractice. They carry ballot boxes and intimidate voters, especially PDP members, in order to favour APC. “We have got report of thugs dressed on military uniforms, backed up by soldiers, going from one polling unit to another and carrying away ballot boxes. The military are not allowing the electorate to exercise their franchise properly. “What the APC and the Army want to achieve is to make sure a party that just came into existence three days ago wins the PDP which has been in government for a very long time.” ….PMB Commends Nigerians, Security Agencies In Katsina State, there was an impressive turnout of voters and a largely hitch-free governorship and state assembly polls with President Muhammadu Buhari and his wife, Aisha, exercising their franchise following a brisk accreditation and voting process. The Buharis, accompanied by personal aides, cast their votes by 8am at Sarkin Yara Polling Unit in the home town of the President amidst cheers from his kinsmen and supporters. In a chat with newsmen before returning to his Daura country home, Buhari expressed gratitude to Nigerians, especially the voters, for their commitment to the voting process and for turning out in their numbers to perform  their civic duty. The president also urged all security operatives to intensify efforts to ensure peaceful and credible elections in the final phase of the general elections. On his part, the Katsina State governor, Aminu Bello Masari, affirmed that he entertained no fear over the outcome of elections in which the ruling APC had won the first round of the 2019 general elections with about one million votes two weeks ago. Asked his reaction if the result of the poll did not favour him, the governor retorted:  “It will not go against me.” The governor was fielding question from newsmen at his Masari country home after voting at Adult Education Poling Unit, Masari, Kafur LGA of the state. The governor revealed that at least two cases of votes buying by some loyalists of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had been uncovered in the area besides as well as in other parts of the state. He, however, maintained that the said electoral infractions would not be widespread enough to change the final outcome of the polls. “I have shared the reports I have so far received with security agencies; those accusing APC of vote buying are busy buying some votes but we in APC are not going to buy votes,” said Masari. He praised the smooth and peaceful conduct of the election, adding that the initial fear of voter apathy had been dispelled. “Initially, the turnout was low but from the reports I am having, people are coming out enmasse. You know, once you have presidential election, there is tendency that voter turnout would be low for other elections; some people would just believe that the elections are over,” said Masari, who is also the governorship candidate of the APC. The director-general, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN), Dr. Umar Dikko Radda, hailed yesterday’s polls as one of the best the nation had ever conducted. Speaking with journalists at Radda, he said: “Two weeks ago, the card reader could not identify my fingerprints, but today it accepted my PVC and my fingerprint effortlessly. In addition, there is improvement in voter turnout compared with what we had last week. This is one of the best elections we have had in the country where we see people conducting themselves peacefully in their various polling units even in the absence of security agents.” …INEC materials stolen in Ebonyi Barely nine hours after INEC’s sensitive and non-sensitive materials was set ablaze by suspected political thugs in Okposi Umuohara in Ezza North LGA, another set of the Commission’s materials for yesterday’s election at Ngbo ward in Obodo Eja in Ohaukwu LGA were also reportedly taken away by suspected thugs. The APC state chairman, Pastor Eze Nwachukwu Eze, who gave this report, lamented that the electoral materials were yesterday stolen by unknown gunmen at  about 10am. Though he did not give details of the incident, he, however, described it as unhealthy. Meanwhile, the PDP in the state accused the APC of masterminding the attacks across the state and called on the security agencies to ensure prompt response to forestall further occurrence. Speaking with journalists, the Senator representing Ebonyi Central senatorial zone on the platform of PDP, Senator Obinna Ogba, condemned the burning of poll materials by gunmen at the Registration Area Centre (RAC) located at Community Secondary School, Okposi Umuoghara in Ezza North LGA of Ebonyi State. The senator accused members of the main opposition party, the APC, of being behind the arson. He also chided the security agencies in the state for failing in their duty to safeguard the election materials in the area. “You know, earlier, we had been saying something about this; that this party, APC, was not doing anything. They were not campaigning. “We knew that they wanted to cause mayhem today (yesterday); because what they are looking for is a way they can cause the cancellation of elections in some areas and call for re-election some other time, so that they can bring their army, police and what have you. “But the people will not allow that. The security agencies should live up to expectations. If they did not collude with security agents, how could they have gone to the place to set the sensitive materials ablaze?”, Senator Ogba queried. Saraki Blames Low Turnout Of Voters On Militarisation The Senate president, Bukola Saraki, has condemned the militarisation of the governorship and state assembly elections in Kwara State. Speaking with newsmen after casting his vote at Ode Opobiyi polling unit 005, Ajikobi ward in Ilorin West LGA, Saraki blamed the low turnout of voters on the heavy deployment of military and other security operatives for the exercise. He, however commended the voters for their orderliness and peaceful conduct during the exercise. It would be recalled that the military and other security operatives had since Thursday been engaged in show of force around strategic locations in Ilorin metropolis. There was also the deployment of a military jet to the state capital. The Senate president, however, urged INEC to strictly use the card readers for the exercise. A former minister of national planning, Professor Abubakar Suleiman Olanrewaju, also joined Saraki in condemning the militarisation of the exercise in the state. Voter Apathy In Adamawa In Adamawa State, low voter turnout was observed during the state elections at Yola-North, Yola-South and Girei LGAs of the state. Significantly fewer voters came out at Gwdabawa, Ajiya and Rumde polling units visited by our correspondent when compared with the presidential and National Assembly elections. Armoured Personnel Carriers were seen on major highways with policemen taking strategic positions to ensure a hitch-free exercise. Voting and accreditation of voters started by 8am while  the electorate that turn out to vote  lined up in an orderly manner at most of the voting units visited. The temporary restriction of  vehicular movement by the  police across the state was not fully complied with as motorists were seen plying major streets of the state capital while shops opened for business. ..INEC ’ll not accept results signed under duress Meanwhile, INEC has said it would not accept any result signed and collated under duress. Mr Edwin Enabor, INEC Head, Voter Education and Publicity in Rivers State, made this known while speaking with newsmen in reaction to alleged snatching of results in Port Harcourt. “If any result emanates or comes in as a result of duress, INEC will not accept it.  Definitely, the commission will know what to do but the report has to be documented,” he said. He said INEC was yet to verify the alleged snatching of results from collation officers by some men in military uniform. “We are yet to verify if the security people accused of snatching of results were actually real security men or persons putting on their uniform. “We have to be sure first because it is only the authorities that can authenticate whether they are actually their men or not,” he said. Enabor further said that the collation officer deployed at Khana LGA was changed due to a report that he was not a lecturer at the University of Port Harcourt, nor an employee of any federal agency but a member of a political party. “The electoral officer in the area has been directed to pick another collation officer from one of his supervising presiding officers to do the collation.(NAN) … 44 Policemen In Road Crash About 44 policemen deployed to Gwagwalada in the FCT were involved in road crashes, with 11 of them seriously injured. Out of the 44 officers, 33 were treated for minor injuries and discharged, two are currently at Police Hospital, Garki, five are at Gwagwalada General Hospital, three at National Hospital and one in a private hospital receiving treatment. Some of the injured policemen include Inspector Luka Hananiya, Sgt. Shettima Solomon, Inspector Maude Yusuf, Inspector Mumini Mohammed and Sgt Musa Dahiru. Speaking at the National Hospital, the acting Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, said: “It is because of the election that we decided to deploy our men to pulling units. On their way, a team that was deployed to Gwagwalada was involved in an accident and a lot of them are seriously injured. “You can see that we are at the trauma section of the National Hospital where some of them are admitted. They have various degrees of injury ranging from fracture to head injuries that require further investigation. “I have ordered that they be taken to other hospitals with the necessary equipment to treat them. We are here to make sure that they are given proper treatment to recover.” On the reports from other states about the elections, the IGP said, “So far, so good, the report is that it has been generally peaceful. We have a couple of challenges here and there but, generally, it has been peaceful.” …EFCC nabs politician over vote buying in Kano, Intercept bags with cash in Benue Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Kano State have confirmed arresting a politician in Kano over alleged vote buying, but declined to name the suspect. A reliable source at the agency told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kano yesterday on condition of anonymity that the suspect was arrested at about 1pm at Chediya Uku polling unit, Gwagwarwa ward in Nasarawa LGA of the state. The source said the suspect was currently in detention assisting operatives in their investigation. “We will not disclose the identity of the suspect until after investigation which is ongoing now,’’ the source said. However, an eye witness said the suspect was arrested after a female EFCC operative who was at the polling unit allegedly video recorded the suspect giving voters money. “The suspect is a former councillor of the local government area,” the source said, adding that it was gathered that after the officer alerted her office, EFCC operatives numbering about six stormed the polling unit in a Toyota Hilux and arrested the suspect. (NAN) In a related development, operatives of the EFCC yesterday intercepted bags filled with money meant for vote-buying in Makurdi, Benue. The commission made this known on its Facebook page, “officialefcc”. According to the commission, the bags were intercepted at the North Bank Area of the state capital. “In an attempt to arrest the culprit, some thugs attacked the EFCC operatives and vandalised the bus used for the patrol.” …Police Arrest Vehicle With Thumbprinted Ballot Papers In Kano The police in Kano State have confirmed the arrest of a vehicle loaded with thumbprinted ballot papers in Kano. Confirming the development, Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Haruna Abdullahi, said the vehicle was intercepted at Magwan polling unit in Nassarawa LGA. He said the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) at the local government reported the matter to the state police command and he was directed to move the vehicle to the state command headquarters. He said the vehicle is under police custody and that investigation has commenced to ascertain the persons behind the act so that they can face the law. A voter who was present when the vehicle was intercepted but who does not want his name in print told  LEADERSHIP  Sunday that it was actually two vehicles that came to the polling unit with ballot papers.