Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof Charles Dokubo, has said his second year in office will be a different ball game haven learnt a lot of lessons in his one year stint in the Presidential Amnesty programme. Dokubo, in an interview with selected journalists in Abuja at the weekend, revealed that he is now grounded in the terrain he operates today, saying priority in the months to come is to continue to train, empower, provide job opportunities for and integrate beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme to make them key contributors to the economic growth of the country. He said key among these is “job placement”, which is now the motto of the Presidential Amnesty Office under him. “…every part of your life, you will encounter challenges that you didn’t even think of, and for me, this is a terrain that I am now well grounded in and my second year will be totally different from my first year” “Actions will be taken; trainings will be done, and empowerment will be done immediately after. You don’t have to wait for years or wait to be trained and trained before you get your empowerment. The Amnesty Office is ready to move forward”, said Dokubo. He noted that the office”will be forming synergies with the private and government institutions. According to him, “recently we sent names to the Nigerian Navy, so that they can employ people from the Niger Delta. We have sent names to the police, so they can be employed. He said the aim is to ensure that “people from the Niger Delta will stop depending on stipend. Stipend does not develop a community, it only sustains the peace and not their future”. “What we want to do is to take people who have got jobs out of the stipends; make arrangements with multinational companies like Shell, Chevron, Mobil, that operate in the Niger Delta to work in concert with us as part of their corporate social responsibility so that those who have been trained can also be given jobs”, he said. He coninued: “job placement is the next stage of my plans for the next year and I believe that if we can achieve that, we are going to do well, adding that “the people of the Niger Delta will not cry their old cries again that they have been marginalised. “The amount of money government has spent on this programme is a lot and I know that if we judiciously expend it, most people from the Niger Delta will benefit immensely. I want this programme to be a success,” added Dokubo who said posterity will not forgive them if leaders of Niger Delta failed to judiciously utilise the opportunities given to the Niger Delta region.  