For renewing his mandate in office for another four years, President Muhammadu Buhari has promised to serve Nigerians better by surpassing his current achievements. He listed the sectors the citizens should expect more from him as security, the economy, job creation, and infrastructure. In the next dispensation, Buhari also promised to wage a more coordinated and cohesive anti-corruption war to free resources for economic development and the provision of social services. As the president spoke on the next phase of his administration yesterday, the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja granted one of the prayers of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to inspect the materials used for the February 23 presidential poll by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Atiku, who was the runner up in the election, is contesting the validity and authenticity of the results announced by INEC. During an interaction with the leadership of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) at the State House, Abuja yesterday, Buhari said: “This is my last lap. I will try and work even harder than I have done. I assure you that I will not let you down. I pray that my best will be good enough.” The details of the president’s meeting with the ACF leaders were contained in a statement issued by his spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu. Shehu said that Buhari thanked members of the ACF for their dogged support, stressing that he remained appreciative of their goodwill. The chairman of the ACF Board of Trustees (BoT), Mallam Adamu Fika, in his response, said that the organisation was at the presidential villa to congratulate President Buhari on his re-election. Fika recalled some projects critical to the North and the country as a whole which were abandoned until 2015 when Buhari came into office as the Baro Dry Port and Mambilla Hydro Power Station, He said: “It is pleasing to note that since then, the Baro Dry Port has been commissioned, while some other projects have been reactivated and are now being implemented. “We pray that those organs of government charged with the responsibility for their implementation will double their efforts to ensure that these projects are fully executed within a reasonable time,” he added. …Canvasses Better Gov’ship, Assembly Polls On Saturday Also yesterday, President Buhari appealed to Nigerians to make the governorship and state assemblies’ polls slated for Saturday better than the presidential and National Assembly elections. In his message to Nigerians ahead of the state elections, Buhari reiterated that local and international observers had adjudged the presidential elections to be free and fair. He said that the second and final phase of the 2019 general elections where Nigerians will vote for their governors and members of state legislatures should be better. The president again sent his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives or sustained injuries as a result of accidents or violence during the just-concluded elections. According to him, the onus is once again on qualified citizens to turn out in large numbers to exercise their franchise. With the presidential poll now gone, Buhari appeal to Nigerians not to be complacent and fail to vote in the Saturday elections. He averred that the forthcoming elections are as important for good governance as that of the presidency and the National Assembly. Buhari said that governance at the states is closer to the people and should touch their lives more. The president said that as a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), “I recommend those standing on the platform of the party to you, as we are guided by progressive ideals, and we will not disappoint you. “Equally, I urge you to comport yourself properly as you turn out for the election. Avoid all deviant behaviours such as ballot stuffing, ballot snatching, and any other action that does not conform with best electoral practices. “I assure you that the security agencies will be on hand to protect voters, and ensure that the process is not undermined in any way. Let’s make the gubernatorial polls much better than the presidential, which local and international observers have adjudged to be free and fair. “May I repeat my appeal to our young people: do not allow yourselves to be used to cause violence or to break the law or otherwise disturb the peace. I have pledged a decent and credible electoral system for our country. I stand by that promise. “Let us do the right thing on Saturday so that the best hands can emerge at the states and take us faster to the Next Level,” Buhari stated. Tribunal Grants Atiku’s Request To Inspect Election Materials Meanwhile, Atiku has won the first round of his judicial struggle to reverse the results of the presidential poll as the three-man panel of the justices of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal granted his request to compel INEC to allow him and the PDP inspect materials used for the February 23 presidential election. The tribunal yesterday ordered INEC to allow Atiku’s legal team access to the election materials and obtain their “Certify True Copies.” The tribunal chairman, Justice Abdul Aboki, however, refused Atiku’s prayer to do forensic analysis on the materials. Other Justices on the tribunal are Justices Emmanuel Agim and Peter Ige. The court, in addition, refused to order the electoral body to permit forensic experts of the applicants to examine Form EC48 and other relevant forms used for the election. Atiku had Tuesday approached the tribunal for an order to allow him access to the election materials. At about 1pm yesterday, the tribunal began hearing of the motion the PDP and Atiku filed to compel INEC to present all the materials used for the presidential election for inspection. In the motion ex-parte dated March 4, Atiku and the PDP applied for leave of the tribunal to allow them to inspect the voter registers, the Smart Card Reader machines, ballot papers and other vital documents used for the election. They also prayed the tribunal to compel INEC to allow their agents to scan and make photocopies of the vital documents for the purpose of establishing alleged irregularities in the exercise. While arguing the motion yesterday, Atiku’s counsel, Chief Chris Uche (SAN), told the tribunal that the reliefs sought against INEC were for the purpose of filing and maintaining an election petition they intend to lodge against the outcome of the 2019 presidential election The ex-parte motion was supported with a 12-paragraph affidavit deposed to by Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd) the director of Contact and Mobilisation of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Council. The 1st to 3rd respondents in the case are INEC, President Buhari and the APC. CUPP Hails Ruling After the tribunal’s ruling, opposition parties under the aegis of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) described it as a good take-off of the case. CUPP said that it was a good development that the Appeal Court ordered INEC to “immediately allow Atiku access to inspect all electoral materials (card readers, ballot papers, result sheets etc) used for the conduct of the highly rigged February 23, 2019, presidential election.” The coalition in a statement issued by its spokesman, Mr. Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, in Abuja described the “ruling as a positive development in the quest by Atiku to retrieve the mandate Nigerians gave to him.”