Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has called on the people of the state to remain calm as the success  of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the March 9, 2019 Governorship Election would be a sweet victory in the end. He stated that the will of the people of the state will prevail at the end of the day despite  the conspiracy against the people of the state. Wike spoke Friday when members of the National Assembly elected on the platform of the PDP presented their Certificates of Return to him at a ceremony in the Government House,  Port Harcourt The governor said: “I know that PDP won the elections squarely. We believe in peace, therefore Rivers people should remain calm. We believe in due process. “I believe that INEC is doing their best to follow the due process. In the end, it will be a sweet victory. The will of Rivers people will prevail.” Wike described the entire political standoff as a drama which will end, saying that the people of Rivers people voted overwhelmingly for the PDP in all elections, while the anti-democratic forces attempted to snatch results at the collation centres. The governor said: “Let me thank the people of Rivers State for the love they have shown for our great party. It is not in doubt that Rivers people have shown our party love. What is happening  is sad.  It is a drama. “We have 13 House of Representatives seats and the PDP clinched all of them. We have three Senate seats,  one has been declared and PDP won. When the remaining two seats are declared, PDP will win them. Eighty percent of the seats declared, PDP took all. “You begin to wonder why any right  thinking person would say that PDP lost the governorship election. Not that they say PDP lost to a party with a known logo, or even if you have seen the Candidate one day in your life or seen his posters to make people vote for the candidate. For us, it is a drama. PDP won the election squarely.” He stated that across the 4442 Polling Units of Rivers State, the people voted for the PDP in all the elections, saying: “Across 4442 Polling Units the results are there. The PDP won in all these areas. “Not when you hijack results  at the Collation Centre.  When you hijack Form EC 8C, you forget that there is Form EC 8A. Any other party can win in any other state, but not in Rivers States . “I dedicate this victory  to God and the good people of Rivers State who stood firm and said that nobody  can manipulate their mandate.” Wike urged the elected National Assembly to always place the interest of Rivers State above other considerations as they represent the state. The governor said all those who plotted the killings of Rivers people because  of their desperation to clinch power will face the consequences of their actions. Speaking on behalf of the elected National Assembly members,  Senator-elect, Barry Mpigi said there is no need for anyone to panic as Wike will be declared  winner in line with the votes cast on March 9. Mpigi, who stated thay Rivers people are with governor as shown by their votes in all the polling units, said Rivers people  have shown that they love PDP and that the PDP  has shown that it is the party on ground  in Rivers State. He said: “We have looked round the 23 Local Government Areas and we have seen that the people of Rivers State voted for you. Don’t panic, the vindication  will come at the appropriate time”, Mpigi said. Rivers State PDP Chairman, Bro Felix Obuah said that elected members  of the National Assembly were at the Government House,  Port Harcourt as a mark of respect  for Governor Wike and in recognition of his support all through  the electioneering process. 