The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed hope that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will declare Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike as the governor-elect of Rivers State. The party thanked the people of Rivers State for massively voting for its candidates during the Presidential and National Assembly elections as well as the Gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections that held on February 23, 2019 and March 9, 2019, respectively. Chairman of PDP in Rivers State, Chief Felix Obuah, who addressed newsmen in Port Harcourt yesterday, said the party already has 14 elected members of the National Assembly and 26 elected members of the Rivers State House of Assembly. Obuah said: “The outcome of the Governorship and State Assembly Elections of March 9, 2019 proved the love the good people of Rivers State have for our beloved party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “You showed unparalleled love for our party by voting all the way for Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and all our candidates for the National and State Houses of Assembly elections. “The results from all polling units and constituencies where the elections were concluded have confirmed and reaffirmed to us that Rivers State is PDP; that PDP is our way of life in Rivers State. You have once again, reposed your total confidence in our party. “As the chairman of the PDP, I wish to express and convey the gratitude of our party to the people of Rivers State for this wonderful show of love and support for our governorship candidate, Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and the State Assembly candidates. “I congratulate all PDP State House of Assembly candidates who were declared duly elected to represent their respective constituencies by Rivers people.  With 26 state constituencies already declared for PDP across the state, it is crystal clear that our Governor, His Excellency, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike CON, GSSRS, POS has been re-elected by the good people of Rivers State. “The victories of February 23rd and March 9, 2019 are victories for all Rivers people. By voting massively for PDP, Rivers people chose freedom, performance and merit over political gangsterism, impudence and impunity. “You courageously stood your ground despite the arrests, harassment, violence and horrific onslaught on our democratic rights by the combined gang of renegade soldiers and F-SARs personnel. I want to assure the people of Rivers State that the PDP will not take your support for granted. “Therefore, as we await the official declaration by INEC that our Governorship Candidate, His Excellency, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has been duly re-elected in line with the peoples’ votes and overwhelming wishes, I urge the people of Rivers State to remain vigilant and continue to support our party. “Be assured that the second term of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike will generate more pro-people projects and programmes for the good and development of Rivers people.”