The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai has noted with great concern the increased propaganda and undue publicity given to the remnants of the erstwhile Boko Haram terrorists group by some people. This worrisome development, the Army Chief said has further boosted the image of the criminal gang thus assuming larger than life status. Buratai made the plea on Friday during his operational visit to troops of Operation Lafiya Dole in Maiduguri, the Borno state capital. He therefore pointed out that, it is wrong for any person to eulogize or support murderers, bandits and armed robbers that the known Boko Haram terrorists group has turned into. Consequently, he said referring to such gang of criminals, bandits, insurgents such as Boko Haram Terrorists Group, JAS or ISWAP in Nigeria could amount to supporting or encouraging terrorism. The Chief of Army Staff said that it is also important to note that the mode of operation of these elements, is pure criminality for personal gains. He pointed out that It is common knowledge that the criminals no longer pretend to be championing any cause other than quest for materialism as manifested in murder and terror on hapless people. A statement issued by Army Spokesman, Col Sagir Musa quoted Buratai  to have  pleaded that as  peace loving people, Nigerians  should not be glorifying these criminals by calling them by any name other than “criminals,” “rapists,”  “kidnappers”,   “armed robbers” and  “murderers.” “Unfortunately, many Nigerians are not aware that giving prominence to the criminal activities of the terrorists group through sensational headlines and fake news in both electronic and print media could also amount to tacit support to terrorism which violates the Terrorism Prevention Act 2011. “It is therefore important that all Nigerians rally round our gallant troops as they fight these criminals.  All should know that the support to the efforts of the Armed Forces Of Nigeria in the counter terrorism efforts would boost their morale and it will be highly appreciated. “The Nigerian Army is asking for the continued understanding and cooperation of all Nigerians and well-meaning people. He further stated that all troops have been enjoined to henceforth go all out to deal decisively with these criminals. “They are nothing but bandits and armed robbers. Let’s support our military to ensure a secured Nigeria,” the statement reads.