Stakeholders in the printing industry have lamented the lack of patronage by government and called for an enforcement of the Federal Governments executive order five to grow the industry. The stakeholders made this assertion yesterday in Abuja at the 2019 Nigeria International Print Expo with the theme “New Frontiers In Print Business In Nigeria,”. The Managing Director DCS Integrated Media Limited Mr Tunde Obokhai organisers of the exhibition said the show aims to bring to the front burner opportunities inherent in the printing industry which is currently suffering due to lack of government support. While calling on government to impose tariff on printed jobs abroad and lift same off printing materials, he said the industry has the capacity to employ a large percent of the population. “The printing industry is suffering from lack of capacity and lack of patronage by even the government. It is a business that can employ a lot of people but policies have been skewed to encourage printing of jobs abroad. That is why it is cheaper to print abroad. People print government jobs abroad with a negative impact on the economy,” He noted “There is high tariff on print products but free tariff on finished print products which encourages printing of jobs outside the country,” He added that the industry needs support,hence the government can’t continue to be printing ballot papers abroad. “We should enforce the printing policies to grow the industry,” The President Chartered Institute of Professional Printers of Nigeria (CIPPON) Mr Gbemi Malomo added that though there are policies,some unscrupulous elements in the government deny the local printers the job. Mr Malomo noted that Nigerians are being persecuted in South Africa today because they don’t have jobs at home. He said there is need for the government to urgently explore ways of promoting the printing industry which is a sure way of providing jobs rather than printing jobs abroad. “The legislation is there and what we need now is enforcement, The Executive Order five says jobs should be printed locally but that is not done. “The major problem in this country is unemployment. We often times go treating symptoms rather than the root cause of the problem. There is need for us to give Nigerians jobs to do,those contracts taking abroad should be done locally,” he said The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Information Mrs Grace Gekpe Isu represented by the Federal Government Printer Mr Tony Itu said the Government is concerned about challenges facing the printing Industry and will ensure they are addressed soon. He said the the paper mill industry and the ink policies if implemented will go a long way in improving the industry. “We have the woods that can make the print industry cheap and so it is a shame that we are still importing printing materials,” While pledging the support of the Federal Government to the industry, he said there is need to build capacity of the printers and imbibe good maintenance culture. In his paper presentation on extending new frontiers in the printing business, Dr Rotimi Oladele emphasized the need to stop importation of prints and grow capacity locally. Dr Oladele who scored the tertiary institutions zero in terms of printing education called on Universities to include printing in their curriculum. 