Going by current developments within the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), there is no doubt that all is not well with the party in the state. The party with only one state in the south- south geo-political zone may in fact, be on a speedy run-off to self destruction in Edo State going by the infighting currently bedeviling its state chapter. And as the party prepares to go into governorship election in the state in a few months from now, analysts have advised members to close ranks if the party must reclaim the state for another term. Unlike what obtained a few weeks back where the  media was awash with flakes stoking flames in an already charged atmosphere, such that almost bore the identity of an imminent war between the immediate past governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole, and his political god-son, who is now the governor of the state, Godwin Obaseki, on the face of it, today, there is calm in the political atmosphere of Edo State. But this is not to say hakuna matata yet. Given the relationship between Oshiomhole and Obaseki, who the former labour leader had groomed during his stint as Edo State governor, the relationship between the duo was at best quite frosty but it now appears that things are beginning to return to normalcy. Today, the streets of Benin appear to be tentatively calm and quiet, but this barely masks the slight of division and discontent between the pro- Oshiomhole and pro- Obaseki groups in the state. In the build up to the 2019 general elections, the ruling party was in most parts of the country, enmeshed in all shades of controversial showdowns and supremacy battles, precipitated by the usual desperation of members of the political class to secure their interests in all circumstances, a situation that cost the party states like Imo, Zamfara and Rivers with other key contested positions at all levels. Analysts are still of the view that Edo State would have also been lost to the opposition if guber election had been conducted there.Given the outcome of the elections at the national level where the opposition won both at the presidential and national assembly levels, there is a lot to learn to learn from the outcome of the elections. However, it appears that Obaseki has taken up the leadership role to return peace and get the party back to its groove. A few weeks back, at a special thanksgiving mass to mark the 80th birthday of former APC national chairman and first executive governor of the state, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, Obaseki had told the congregation during the service that he had met with his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and that efforts were being made to resolve issues created by third parties in the state, stressing that there were no fundamental issues between them. “I thank you very much for the remarkable homily. I listened very attentively and I have taken every word in your remark to heart and very seriously. I want to assure you that we are in pursuit of peace and we will have peace in Edo State,” he said. While speaking further, he noted that, “We have met, me and my predecessor in office, and fortunately, we do not have any fundamental issues. And because we do not have any fundamental issues, I believe that whatever third parties are trying to propagate I am sure we can talk over it. I assure you that very soon things will return to normalcy in Edo State.” In the same vain, the governor, had during the last Eid-El-Kabir feast paid a surprise visit to Oshiomhole at his country home in Iyamho, where they were seen in frenzy mood for the first time after several speculations about their frosty relationship. The APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, had after the visit described Obaseki, as his brother who he had been in contact with from time to time. “It is not an unusual visit, the meeting afforded me the opportunity to meet with my brother and with people I have worked with.” The APC national chairman had described the seeming rift as the unfortunate creation of people with personal interest. On his part, Obaseki, who was asked about his surprise visit to Iyamho, said there was nothing unusual about paying a visit to his former boss. “There is nothing unusual about this meeting; today is Sallah and we have just finished celebrating with the former APC national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun in Benin City,” he said. Many have described Obaseki’s move as a role of a leading light who means well for the progress of his party after setting up a committee to look into pre- election crises and resolve the differences among the warring parties in the APC in the state. Last week after receiving the report of the Theophilus Oko led- committee, Obaseki apologised to all the aspirants who contested the 2019 primary election on the platform of the ruling APC, as well as  to aggrieved members of the party. The governor who played host to the aspirants at the Government House in Benin, said the meeting was in line with the recommendation of the Theophilus Okoh-led committee set up to reconcile aggrieved members of the APC. “After reading the Okoh committee report and watching videos, I really appreciate you all and say we are truly sorry for what you may have gone through during the 2019 primarily election. “Out of the primaries arose almost 20 court cases of those that claimed they were deprived of the opportunities to contest. To build trust, confidence and demonstrate that we truly want to reconcile the aggrieved members of our party, within a week of receiving the Okoh committee report, we have to call a meeting to talk to our aggrieved members,” he said. With these developments, analysts believe that the party is getting its groove back and the governor was right on track. They said as politics is a game of interests, it was therefore expected of politicians to engage in tussles and squabbles in a bid to take their best chances and make the most of the opportunities they have. This must however, must be done with decorum and there must  be ground for tolerance. Politics cannot be politics without a regulatory mechanism to curb the excesses of overzealous and self-absorbed players. He added that “If the APC has proceeded thus far with all the infightings and unresolved grievances littering its domain and without it making concerted effort to settle disputes among its members and pacify its aggrieved stakeholders, then it only means that the party may not be able to survive beyond the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari, as has been predicted by political pundits and concerned supporters of the party. Obaseki has just done what other party leaders could not do,” said an APC leader in Edo north who described the crisis in the state chapter of the party as unnecessary. “Oshiomhole knew what he was doing when he brought Obaseki to serve and adopted him as his successor. So far, Obaseki has proven his critics wrong and had justified his boss’ decision to entrust him with the state. If Obaseki had failed, that could have been the only reason why the conspiracy to deny him a second ticket would have crept in but as it stands, he has beaten expectations even with the little resources at his disposal,” he said. Sympathisers of the ruling party have raised concerns over the continuous infightings that have become the prime characteristic of the party that was once touted to be the “gathering of like-minded brethren united under the singular purpose of removing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from power and entrenching good governance in the Nigerian political system.” A lot of questions have been raised as to whether the APC has been able to meet the huge expectations placed on it by its teeming supporters. Many apologists of the ruling party are obviously not satisfied with the poor show that the party had put out, especially at the 2019 general elections and feared if what was seen Edo in the last few months, would not affect its outing as elections for number one seat in the state gather momentum. With the south-south which incidentally is the zone of the current chairman of the ruling APC, one would clearly see that the APC’s presence in that zone is almost invisible with only one state answering to the name of the ruling party. The APC unfortunately has no stake in the south-east as Imo was lost to the opposition due to former Governor Rochas Okorocha’s sheer desperation to impose his son-in-law as governor. “Being the only state now controlled by the party in the entire south-south and south- east, I think those beating the drum of war should thread with caution. We know all of them and because they are benefiting from the crisis, they are ready to bring the state down. They should be careful before Edo State is mortgaged,” Abas Eshiotse, a party faithful had recently warned. Recall that not until Oshiomhole became the party chairman, the south-south had been  under the firm grip of the PDP since the inception of the fourth republic. Delta, Akwa-Ibom, Cross River, Rivers, Bayelsa and Edo have always been governed by the PDP. It was only much later that Edo was wrested from the grip of the PDP by Oshiomhole’s AC  and later APC. Political observers have opined that Edo could still be captured by the PDP if the opposition party is shrewd enough to cash in on the current crisis rocking the APC in the state. Edo is presently the only state in the south-south that is being governed by the APC, and it has always been under the firm grip of the PDP, and the PDP is still very organised and visibly present in the state. This makes it a risky venture for the APC in Edo to engage in any rivalries. It is only a united APC that can withstand the strength of the opposition in Edo, and it is very important that the APC in Edo puts its house in order or face the risk of losing to the PDP. Obaseki has taken the first step and has showed all signs of humility by extending the hand of peace to his former boss and bringing all aggrieved party members together. The national chairman of the ruling party must do well to close ranks with his god-son, and work with him to secure the interest of their party. While it was easy for Tinubu to cash in on the disorganisation of the PDP in Lagos and play his political game as he pleased, it may not prove same for Oshiomhole who has even greater opposition to contend within the PDP than in his god-son. Chances are that if Oshiomhole declines giving a return ticket to Obaseki, the incumbent governor won’t have any difficulties making headway if he decides to pitch his tent with the opposition and pursue his mandate with their support, but it is now clear that this may be the option as Obaseki has continued to prove to be a party man. One good reason why Oshiomhole must work hard to keep Edo for the APC is that he would no longer be considered as a relevant stakeholder in the ruling party if he carelessly lost his state to the PDP.  It is often said that the child who is pursued by an enemy into his father’s house must first be protected from the enemy before he is scolded and warned not to get into danger again. APC must first consider the larger risk it is faced with in losing Edo to the opposition, than in giving another chance to a god-son it considers as rebellious and unyielding. The party  cannot afford to lose yet another state to the opposition on the ground of baseless infighting and trivial squabbles. The APC is yet to recover from the tumultuous blow it suffered at the hands of the opposition during the last general elections, and it should not be setting itself up for another deadly blow while it is yet to fully recover. Politics must be played with caution as there are no permanent friends or permanent enemies in the game, only permanent interests.