* Multi-choice MTN Decry Attacks Some groups of angry Nigerians on Tuesday attacked MTN office in Apapa and Ikeja areas of Lagos setting the office on fire in revenge of the xenophobic attacks of Nigerians in South Africa thereby creating confusion. The attack of Nigerians in South Africa which has increased in recent days with killing of innocent Nigerians and other Africans in South Africa has received condemnation globally. But the irate Nigerian youths also attacked Shoprite in Ajah and other known office of the firms belonging to South Africa in retaliation, saying that destruction of the firms would continue as long as Nigerians are not safe in South Africa. It was learnt that the angry protesters also burnt a patrol vehicle belonging to the Nigerian police after the police allegedly shot one of the protesters dead. Following the reports of attacks in South African company across the state metropolis, Shoprite Mall located inside the Ikeja Mall, Alausa was hurriedly forced to shut down operations with staff locked inside its shopping complexes across Lagos hours. Buyers were prevented from entering the mall while movement in out of the Shoprite was halted At the entrance of the mall, a notice was pasted on the door. Notice reads, “Dear customers, we condemn the xenophobic attacks happening in South Africa in its entirety. These attacks are totally incompatible with the values of our company and we are not in any way in support of it.” Commenting on the development one of the sales representatives, they couldn’t continue operation because of the possible attack by angry Nigerians. “Many of them may not remember that we all Nigerians working for the South African firm. The best thing is to shut operation for now,” she said. It was learnt that following the reports of attack and possible destruction of the properties belong to the South African firms across the country, it was learnt that all South African telecommunications company, MTN , also closed some of its outlets in the city for fear of an attack by angry Nigerians. Reacting to the attack in South Africa, the Chief Executive Officer of Multichoice, owner DSTV and GoTV, Mr John Ugbe,  also condemned the attack, saying that  the MultiChoice is committed to uniting Africans through our programming and cultural initiatives. He described the present situation as a sombre period for every African on the continent and beyond, urging all its customers, followers, and stakeholders to shun violence. Ugbe in a statement said: “We advocate equality and condemned all forms of discrimination. The on-going violence in South Africa against foreign nationals is against the spirit of Africans and counter-productive to the decades of work done by African leaders and well-meaning organisations to unite the continent. We embrace and celebrate the diversity of varied nationalities, traditions, culture and religions from across the continent and beyond. This is demonstrated through our multinational staff complement, our multicultural supply chain, as well as the local and international content that we showcase on both our DSTV and GOTV platforms. We believe Africa’s full potential can only be realized through dialogue, peace and unity.” Also reacting to the attack, the MTN Nigeria Plc, condemned in totality the xenophobic attacks, killings and looting of shops and properties belonging to Nigerians and other foreigners residing in South Africa. The telecom operator in a statement stated that “MTN Nigeria strongly condemns hate, prejudice and xenophobia and reiterate our unequivocal condemnation of all violence. “We seek to connect people, bring people together and provide a platform for everyone’s voice to be heard. We are against all forms of bigotry and discrimination; they should have no place in society. Everyone has the right to a world where their rights and freedoms are respected — the right to live and earn a living, freely, safely and protected by the law”, the statement read.