An advocacy group, Policy Alert, has tasked citizens of Nigeria annual budget to be able to engage the government on development issues. TJ Bolton MD/COE of Policy Alert who made the call yesterday in his remark at a one day open budget forum in Uyo said this is the only way to ensure that allocations provided for the state translate into real development in communities. The event according to Bolton was put together with the support of ACTIONAID Nigeria through the UKAID Department for International Development (DFID) to Strengthening Citizens’ engagement in Government financial transactions. ‘’Policy Alert Open Budget Forum is a platform for mobilizing and sensitizing citizens at the grassroots for increase participation in the budget process ‘’Open Budget Forum also became imperative against the backdrop of growing frustration and attendant apathy among the citizenry with regards to the lamentable failure of budget to deliver on the dividends of democracy’’ he stated. In keynote address, on ‘’Budget tracking as a strategy for the fight against Corruption in Akwa Ibom’’ Professor Chris Ekong of the department of Economics University of Uyo reiterated the importance of participatory budget; emphasizing that access to budget by citizens will allow for proper monitoring of implementation especially at the grassroots. According to him, inclusive and participatory budgeting will “give citizens the opportunity to call the attention of the government to projects that are not implemented but were included in the budget”. In his goodwill his message the state Accountant General Mr. Andrew Essien who was represented by Mr. Edin Uwat said enlightenment of stakeholders at the grassroots on approaches and strategies for engaging budget process becomes crucial in entrenching openness and transparency in meeting global best practices of democratic inclusion and accountability in governance. He stated that in demonstration of the current administrations openness and accountability governments yearly budget has always being published and released on the website to enable citizen’s access it. He commended Policy Alert for its commitment and organizing the programme in ensuring citizens participation in budgetary implementation through the well thought out sensitization.