A good governance advocacy group, the Unity House Foundation (UHF) says it has begun the sensitization of members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State ahead of the forthcoming congress of the party. Although the APC national leadership is yet to fix the dates for the party’s Ward, Local Government and State congresses, leader of the party in the state and Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, had a fortnight ago, advised APC faithful in the state to prepare for the exercise. The directive by Amaechi, who is the immediate-past Rivers State Governor, attracted criticisms from top chieftains of the party in the state, including the immediate-past Senator representing Rivers South-East District in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe. But, speaking in a live radio programme monitored in Port Harcourt, UHF Chairman, Chris Onuoha, said the group had gone far with its sensitization programme before the Minister gave the directive. Onuoha said: “Since it happened like that, we now on our own, remembered that we have to start on time to sensitize people on the proper congress. We have done that, we have trickled down to even the wards and units. “We had started the sensitization of our people, party people even before the Honourable Minister made the statement. And I don’t think that the statement should have been an issue. “There is a congress coming, we should know that we will have a congress. So, if that is th case and the Honourable Minister says, “go and prepare” for it. What is wrong with that? I don’t see anything wrong myself.” The UHF Chairman insisted that Amaechi did not call for party congress but merely tried to create awareness and remind APC members that the party’s congress will eventually come He said: “Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi did not call for congress, he merely said, “go and prepare for congress”. That was to create awareness and remind people that Congress is coming so that they can up their game and prepare theirselves for th congress. That is how I see it. I don’t think that any conflict should come out of that. “It is the national leadership of the party that will tell us the date for the congress. Politicking is a day-to-day thing. There is nothing wrong it telling you as a member of the party that in no distance time, we are going to have the congress of our party.” Also speaking, a member of UHF Board of Trustees, Bouchi Nsirim, advised peoe to stop seeing the personal views of Amaechi as the views of the majority of the party. Nsirim said: “This kind of heat over the Honourable Minister’s comment is expected where you have diverse views. You know the problem we have been having in the past is that people always see th views of the leader of our party, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi as the views of everybody. He is one individual.”