The group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, has disclaimed reports of explosion on the Abura Crude Trunk line operated by the Corporation.The line, situated at Otu-Jeremi town in Ughelli South, Delta State, and operated by the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), NNPC’s upstream subsidiary, was reported to have gone up in flames on Friday by a section of the media. But speaking shortly after teeing off the 2019 NNPC Upstream Golf Tournament in Benin City on Saturday, Mele Kyari, described the incident as a mere rupture on one of the Corporation’s pipeline which would be fixed within three days. “It was not an explosion. It was a rupture on one of our pipelines. Our team of engineers have since moved to site. In three days, we should be able to fix it. We have since contained the spill coming out of that pipeline. There was no fire anywhere on the pipeline. So there is no cause for alarm,” Kyari stated.The GMD, who assured that the incident would have no impact on the nation’s power supply, also called on host communities within the area to disregard the rumours and go about their normal activities. On the Upstream Golf Tournament, he said the Benin Golf Club is very important for the NNPC because it availed the staff of the various operations of the Corporation in Benin City the opportunity to work and maintain a healthy lifestyle through the game of golf. “Our operations require the support of all stakeholders to succeed. We see our relationship with the Benin Golf Club as very crucial in helping us achieve our key targets of growing production, increasing the nation’s reserves and ensuring a lasting peace in the Niger Delta,” the GMD maintained. In another development, the GMD has assured host communities of oil and gas installations of sustained and symbiotic engagement with the national oil company in such a way as to entrench mutually beneficial partnership with the industry.He made the pledge in response to a message of goodwill on his appointment by the Host Communities of Oil Installations in the Niger Delta, during a recent visit to the NNPC Towers, Abuja, led by its leader, Comrade Atuake Solomon and Organising secretary, Dr. Peter Ikeagwu.A press release by the group general manager, Group Public Affairs Division of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, stated that the NNPC GMD and the Corporation would expand the prevailing cordial relationship with its various host communities to achieve set goals and targets in this regard. He emphasized that the new NNPC management under the leadership of Mallam Mele Kyari, was evolving a relationship where members of host communities would consolidate their roles as stakeholders cum participants in NNPC’s business of superintending over the nation’s vast hydrocarbon resources. The NNPC spokesman called on host communities of oil and gas infrastructure across the country to see themselves in that light while treating their guests and operators of such facilities as partners whose only interest is to bring development and prosperity to their domain.