The Federal Government of Nigeria has said that it will use constitutional means to end the State Local Government Joint Accounts SLGJA because it is widely being abused. This was revealed on Tuesday in Abuja by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha at a National summit on Local Government administration organized by SEGNIP Promotions Limited and the Department of State and Local Government Affairs, Office of the OSGF. The theme of the summit is “Emerging Issues in Local Government Administration in Nigeria”. Mustapha, who was represented by the Director Special Duties, OSGF, Mr. David Attah, lamented the abuse of the SLGJA. He said some state governments’ use their control of the SLGJA to starve local government areas of the statutory allocations which has led to calls for fiscal autonomy for the councils. Mustapha said local government areas need to have full access to their funds in order to provide basic services to the populace at the grassroots. “After so many ruinous years of our recent past, we certainly cannot live with the continued mismanagement of public funds (joint account) any longer. “Most of us know too well the dangers and consequences of this sustained degradation of our local government system which manifest in increased wave of crimes and social maladies like terrorism, kidnapping, cultism, neighbourhood gangs, human trafficking, baby factories, dilapidated primary schools and primary health facilities, influx of youths to urban centres and pernicious rural poverty which have dovetailed into various dimensions, agitations, and unrests. “More so, it is uncanny that most of us fail to see the connection between moribund local governments and Boko Haram insurgency, for instance. “Suffice to say that no ‘baby factory’ or incidence of kidnapping would find space where local government councilors are fully involved in governance and work with landlords associations and town unions. “In the midst of all these, there is no state, not even one, that showed example by devising a system that made the local governments work or gave proper account of the local government funds. “All of us, directly, or tangentially, are exposed to the impact of local government administration daily. Therefore, mismanagement and maladministration at this level of governance will connote impacting negatively on our people with direct implication for banishing a large number of the population to abject poverty and penury,” he said. The SGF also said the recent enactment of the Nigeria Financial intelligent Unit (NFIU) Act and the new local government administration account reporting system by the administration of President Buhari has shown the willingness of the government to improve the level of enforcement of ant graft regulations in the country.