…calls for investigation into remote causes Concerned about ongoing xenophobic attacks on Nigerians by South Africans, a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Henry Nwawuba, has called on the Federal Government to review the ‘Africa as centrepiece’ foreign policy of Nigeria and consider the adoption of the diplomatic reciprocity recently deployed by the US in response to the latest attacks. The call is contained in a statement signed by the lawmaker and issued on Wednesday wherein he also criticised the lack of political will by the South African government to bring culprits of the brutal killings and attacks of foreign national as well as destroy their property. Nwawuba, who was a member of the Femi Gbajabiamila-led committee which visited the South-African parliament, following similar attacks in 2017, described the latest round of attacks as barbaric and wicked. The Imo-born lawmaker who is the deputy chairman, Committee on Niger-Delta, also challenged the South African government to order an independent investigation into violent attacks against foreigners, as such step will proffer immediate and lasting solutions to the ugly culture. The statement read in part: “Suffice to say that the sequential and unmitigated attacks against Nigerians in South Africa, clearly exposes the lack of political will of the South African government to nip the killings in the bud.  Otherwise, it won’t  be wrong to assume that the South African political class and her security architecture, are tacitly inclined to the believe of some of the irate South African citizens who sees Nigerians as potential  threats, thereby, building up xenophobic emotions against them. “Let me use this singular time to once again call for an independent investigation of the remote and immediate causes of this repeated attacks against Nigerians, so as to identify its motivations, and lasting solutions. “May I also remind the government and people of South Africa, the big brother role Nigeria played in dismantling all apartheid structures which hitherto placed South Africans in this same precarious situation they have chosen to put their erstwhile benefactor, Nigeria. “It is my view that this developments affords the government of Nigeria another opportunity to look into her Foreign Policy Objective and see if it can possibly be reviewed to meet the contemporary needs, challenges and aspirations of Nigerians and the Nigeria State, viz-a-viz her national and international relationships. At times like this, Nigeria should see the need to remodel her Foreign Policy Objective which hitherto was hinged on “Africa As The Center Piece”, and begin to look the way of “Diplomatic Reciprocity” just as the US recently did”, Nwawuba stated. 