Former secretary of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Ilorin branch, Sulyman Abaya, has demanded public apology from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)for allegedly forcing him to carry a placard at gun point. The Ilorin Zonal office of the commission had last Wednesday, accused the legal practitioner and two others of defrauding one Pastor Adetunji Adedoyin of his property valued at N20million. The commission later circulated the picture of Abaya where he carried a placard with inscription of alleged criminal conspiracy, forgery and obtaining money by false pretence. Abaya who addressed a press conference in Ilorin, Kwara state where he claimed innocence of the offences preferred against him by the EFCC alleged that he was coerced at gun point by no fewer than two police officers at the anti-graft agency’s office to carry placard despite his resistance. He added that his photograph was uploaded on the commission’s social media page immediately it was taken, saying the action infringed on his fundamental human rights of being heard in the court of law over the N20 million alleged fraud. “The whole world has undoubtedly seen me carrying a placard. Please retake a deep look at that picture and you will see that it was hesitantly carried with one hand. For more than one hour, I resisted and protested carrying the placard but EFCC called on two of its mobile policemen who pointed gun at me and coerced me to carry it. As soon as the picture was taken, EFCC released me and my car”. “I want to state categorically and contrary to the EFCC allegations that I did not conspire with anybody, impersonate anybody and/or forge any document in order to defraud the said Pastor Adedoyin of his property at any point in my life. This fact can be confirmed from Mr. Victor Okoji, Esq who is said to be Engr. Adedoyin’s lawyer”. Reacting to the development, the Ilorin NBA Chairman, Muhammed Idowu Akande, stressed that the legal body is ready to support its member in seeking redress over the alleged ill-treatment meted to him. He added that the NBA will constitute a legal team that will look into the issue, stressing that the union will subsequently drag EFCC before a state or federal High Court for the breach of his fundamental human rights.