The Nigerian Army has paraded four suspected Boko Haram terrorists arrested with logistics in four vehicles, on their way to hinterland of Borno state. The Army also revealed that most of the logistics sustaining Boko Haram insurgency was coming out of Maiduguri, Damaturu in Yobe state and other developed settlements. The Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole , Major General Olusegun Adeniyi made the revelation on Monday at Chabbal ‘super camp’, where the four vehicles and logistics comprising loaves of bread, motorcycle tyres, spare parts, diesel and paint making materials were set ablaze. Adeniyi further revealed that petrol dealers in the affected states connived with Boko Haram logisticians to sell fuel to the terrorists at N245 against the popular price of N145 per litre. The Theatre Commander said soldiers that were on checkpoints arrested the four vehicles that Boko Haram logisticians, who were actually members of the Boko Haram terrorists attempted to use and deliver a large consignment of logistics to the terrorists. He said,” There are no petrol stations or refineries in Sambisa forest, Alagarno or Baga. Most of the logistics sustaining Boko Haram insurgency is coming out of Maiduguri, Damaturu and other developed areas”. “Our men that were at checkpoints apprehended these four vehicles that the logisticians who were actually members of the Boko Haram terrorists were attempting to use to deliver a large consignment of logistics to the terrorists. “The logistics include spare parts and tyres and other things for motorcycles such as engine blocks, plugs and motorcycles”. “Motorcycle is banned in the hinterland, so this is just an attempt to replenish  and supply Boko Haram what they need to move, there are also large consignment of food and paint making materials”. “It is important for everybody living in populated areas to be at alert on what people are buying and taking to the hinterland for use by the insurgents.  As far as I am concerned, these people are not logisticians , they are simply Boko Haram members that have come to buy things for their dastard insurgency”, Major General Adeniyi added. While noting that anti-Boko Haram  logistics warfare is ongoing, the Theatre Commander warned that the Army will do its best to strangulate Boko Haram, not only physically but logistically. He warned commercial drivers and individuals who are using a large and false tanks to supply Boko Haram petroleum, that when they are caught, their vehicles will be burnt and they will be prosecuted as Boko Haram collaborators. Continuing, Major General Adeniyi said:”  I am aware that most of the golf and other small vehicles are carrying tanks as large as 200 litres, they empty these tanks when they get to the hinterland. I am aware Boko Haram buy fuel from commercial drivers for N245. If you are caught with large tank, we will destroy your vehicle. You are supporting the insurgency and your greed for money is making you not to care for the peoples”. “As for those who will say, why don’t you give the food items seized to the IDPs” , I will not do that, Boko Haram terrorists are wicked enough to poison the food”. “ So, I am appealing to well-meaning Nigerians to join operation Lafiya Dole to wage this anti-logistics warfare against Boko Haram terrorists.  It is wrong for petrol station dealers to be deliberately selling 250 litres of fuel into the tank of a car . It should occur to you that you are also promoting insurgency”. “It is wrong for you to be selling bomb making materials to people going to the hinterland, you know what you are doing, and when you are caught, you will not be spared. Boko Haram logisticians will not be ignored , neither will  they be tolerated,” he further warned .