Bala Mohammed, governor of Bauchi State and former minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is no new player in the Nigerian political field. But the new and rousing curiosity among Nigerians and particularly people of Bauchi State is what difference Mohammed is bringing to governance in the state. Shortly after he was sworn-in as governor of Bauchi on May 29, 2019, Mohammed revealed the pitiable and colossal condition of the state’s economy. He said that he inherited a debt of N96 billion from the previous administrations. The immediate past administration in the state had incurred additional N40 billion debt to bring the figure to N136 billion. The unfortunate impact of this is that debt servicing will significantly encroach on funds and invariably limit what government can do. But Bala Mohammed is optimistic that he will seek prudent financial support for his ambitious economic recovery plans; the difference now is that every naira attracted shall be commensurate to its investment. Many reports, including that of Nigeria Bureau of Statistics, have clearly shown the worsening state of the standard of living of Bauchi people. Bauchi is one of the poorest states in Nigeria with an embarrassing record of 1.3 million out-of-school children, and one of the least educated youth and women population in the country. There is also the case of infrastructural collapse in the state. Many government facilities are either not functional or at least in a state of near collapse – the failing school system, dilapidated hospitals, bad roads etc are a testament to this fact. With all this in mind, the governor is determined to transform the fortunes of Bauchi State from one reeling out all sorts of negative development indices to the pride of the nation. First, Bala has pledged to upgrade facilities at the Yankari Games Reserve to operate in line with international standards. Indeed, the reserve, which houses the largest surviving elephant population in Nigeria, and one of the largest in West Africa, holds lots of promise for the economy of the state. Again, last week’s flag-off of the construction of five major roads to open up the township of the state capital is a welcome development. Works on the five roads, spanning over 10.2km, will cost the state government about N5 billion. According to the governor, the projected amount is just about half of what the past government of the state allegedly spent on “burying dead persons” in one month. The new roads comprise Gombe-Maiduguri bypass; Laura – Jos road bye-pass; rehabilitation of Sultan Abubakar Road, and Yakubun Bauchi quarters road. When completed, the Gombe-Maiduguri bypass will ease the usual heavy traffic from the city centre and reduce the travel time around the Bauchi metropolis. These bypasses were conceptualised since the creation of Bauchi State and it was planned to start from Gombe road and connect to Maiduguri road but has never seen the light of day until now. Just as the governor said, the massive road construction projects are just a tip of the iceberg.  The governor will continue to give priority to urban centres in the provision of modern infrastructure that will be of benefit to the people. At the same time, he will open other communities in the rural areas where most of our people who voted for us, live in. True to his campaign promise of prioritising payment of workers’ salaries and gratuities, the governor has released N100m for the payment of outstanding gratuities of retired civil servants in the state. In fact, the head of Civil Service in the state, Nasiru Yalwa, has issued cheques to the beneficiaries, both from the state and local governments. It is without question that Bauchi State is blessed with an abundance of unprocessed and semi-processed products that are in high demand all over the world. What is lacking is the capacity to tap into the treasure chest of state. In this direction, the governor, established an industrial zone that will serve as a one-stop investment mall for investors and business-minded people to interact. He is providing the needed engineering infrastructure, governance platform, tax relief and investment promotion office. Bala Mohammed is reviving the educational sector with emphasis on recruitment of more teachers, training and retraining of teachers, creation of vocational and technical education centres to facilitate skills acquisition and boost computer literacy among youths. As it stands now, all eyes are on Bauchi to see more of the transformative leadership experience that the governor brings to the table for the benefit of Bauchi State. Indeed, Bauchi is in good hands. Oluwatoyin writes from Abuja