The death toll from Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas will be “staggering”, the country’s government has warned as aid efforts are being stepped up. The official death toll stands at 30, but is expected to rise further. Officials are sending morticians and 200 body bags to the Abaco Islands, the worst-hit part of the archipelago. Dorian – which devastated the northern Bahamas from Sunday to Tuesday – is now battering the coasts of South and North Carolina in the US, but is weakening. Officials say hundreds, possibly thousands, are still missing in the Abacos and Grand Bahama. On Thursday Health Minister Duane Sands warned of a “staggering” final count. “The public needs to prepare for unimaginable information about the death toll and the human suffering,” he told local radio. Dorian hit the Bahamas as a category five hurricane with winds reaching 185mph, matching the highest ever recorded at landfall, and stayed over affected areas for two days. The International Red Cross fears 45% of homes on Grand Bahama and the Abacos – some 13,000 properties – were severely damaged or destroyed. Parts of the Bahamas received up to 35in (89cm) of rain, leaving vast areas of it flooded. The Island of Great Abaco is virtually uninhabitable, with bodies piled up, no water, power or food, and militias formed to prevent looting, local media report. erial images over the Abacos showed mile upon mile of destruction, with roofs torn off, scattered debris, overturned cars, shipping containers and boats, and high water levels. The only international airport in Grand Bahama was devastated. International aid operations have been primarily focused on Grand Bahama and the Abacos. Search-and-rescue teams have been combing the worst-hit communities looking for any trace of survivors and bodies. As of Thursday, the US Coast Guard said it had rescued 201 residents. Meanwhile, efforts to deliver aid are being ramped up. Planes and helicopters have been flying in emergency supplies to help the estimated 76,000 people in need of food and shelter. Eight tonnes (8,000kg) of ready-to-eat meals, storage units, generators and other emergency suppliers are to be flown in from Panama, the UN World Food Programme said. A $5.4m (£4.3m) budget has been allocated to the UN agency for a three-month emergency operation in the Bahamas.  BBC 