The Acting Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Dr Akwagaga Enyia, has emphasised the need for collaboration with critical stakeholders to drive the process of development in the Niger Delta region. Enyia disclosed this while speaking after receiving an award of “Excellence for Unprecedented Development Initiatives” bestowed on the Commission by the Miss Niger Delta Organisation in Port Harcourt. The NDDC Acting Managing Director, who was represented by the Director of Corporate Affairs, Mr Charles Obi Odili, said that the Commission would continue to work in harmony with states and local governments in the region so that development efforts would not be too burdensome on it as an interventionist agency. She assured that the Commission would not relent in building synergy with the various tiers of government to ensure impactful human and infrastructural development. Enyia stated that NDDC would do its best to strengthen the relationship between the Commission and the governments of the Niger Delta, to make them partners and not competitors. Presenting the award of excellence to NDDC, the President of Miss Niger Delta Organisation, Prince Sodin Akiagba, said that the interventionist agency had shown remarkable commitment to the task of transforming the Niger Delta region. Akiagba commended the NDDC Acting Managing Director for fast-tracking the construction work towards the completion of the permanent headquarters of the Commission. He said: “It is in recognition of the contributions to the fortunes of the region that we present an Award of Excellence to the NDDC, as an institution and responsible agency of government, for sustainable support and unprecedented development initiatives in the Niger Delta. “We appreciate the NDDC for its continued support to the Miss Niger Delta Organisation towards the sustenance of the Miss Niger Delta Peace Cultural Pageant which is celebrating 19 years of existence since its inception in 1999.” He appealed to the NDDC to assist flood impacted communities and victims in the Niger Delta as well as support the pet programmes of the organisation and queens as young ambassadors of peace and development. 