Stakeholders in the nation’s aviation industry have commended the federal government and the Lagos State government on the state of the access road to the Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA) in Lagos, ANTHONY AWUNOR writes. Over the years the access road to Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA) has remained a source of worry for air travelers; the federal government in collaboration with the Lagos State Government recently changed the access road from what it used to be to a better road network. With the new development, the road has become the delight of airline passengers and other stakeholders plying the route, courtesy the Lagos state and by extension the federal government.The access road, which was earlier described by many in the past as unbefitting fortunately attracted the attention of the immediate past governor of Lagos state, Akinwunmi Ambode who made sure the road  was completed and commissioned by the Federal Government before he handed over the reign of power to the present governor, Babajide Sanwolu.Prior to this time, experience of airline passengers and workers plying the road was better imagined due to gridlock experienced daily basis. Passengers who did not plan their trips well ahead of time on several occasions missed their flights, which prompted the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), to advice passengers who had flights to catch then to leave early to avoid missing their flights. All these experiences have become a thing of the past as traffic on the access road has disappeared for good and passengers travelling in and out of the country have now breathed sigh of relief.A frequent flyer who spoke under the condition of anonymity gave kudos to the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), for been able to contend with the pressure when construction work was going on. He however advised that the Authority should step up the level of security surveillance in and around the airport to prevent negative experience now traffic is no more at the place.“The completion of work on the access road leading to the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), here in Ikeja is a cheering news for all users of airport facilities but I want to advise that the authority in charge should be weary of security. You see, now that you have free flow of traffic, some people with sinister motive can cash on the free flow of traffic to cause trouble or dispossess people of their properties. This is actually the time measures should be taken to forestall incidence that may not speak well of the authority during low or peak period”, the traveler said. Airport operations according to FAAN authority falls within the category of promotion of transparency and effective service delivery, which is one of the key points of this administration. Those who follow the activities of FAAN will discover that since the launch of Ease of Doing Business by the Federal government that, the authority has remained focused, and has continued to record one achievement after another. For example, there is continuous system upgrade of facilities in all the airports across the country.Interestingly, the new MD/CEO, Capt. Hamisu Rabiu Yadudu whose appointment has been lauded by both workers and various stakeholders in the industry assured that his administration would stop at nothing in transforming the airports across the country.Just recently, Capt. Yadudu told the gathering of core aviation practitioners in Lagos that FAAN is ever ready to take bold steps to address issues of procedures and processes in the system, adding that the authority will always collaborate with the International Civil Aviation organization (ICAO), on everything that concerns Airport Service Quality (ASQ). Aside that, the helmsman of the authority within this short period of his appointment has visited most of the airports ostensibly to have first-hand information about what is on ground and to also know what can be done where necessary to promote seamless airport operations was the right step in the right direction.