Members of the opposition All Progressive Congress (APC) in Abia state have been warned against distracting President Muhammadu Buhari with unreasonable and baseless insinuations from his focus. South East Representative on the board of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Engr. MacSolomon Alozie stated this while addressing newsmen in Umuahia, the capital, saying Buhari has many issues requiring his attention. Alozie was reacting to the call by the Hon Donatus Nwakpa-led faction of the APC for the removal of the state nominee on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Mr. Nwogu Nna Nwogu. “The president, as we all know, has too many issues and challenges facing the country that require his immediate attention and not petty matters as the call” said the non -executive director of the REA. He said their reasons for the removal of the nominee sounded so unreasonable to him after reading the report that he began to wonder whether they were speaking for themselves or in the interest of the state. The director argued that Nna Nwogu’s nomination was done in the interest of the oil producing communities in particular and the entire state in general for good and should not be subjected to party interest alone. His words, “Our primary concern should be on how to be accorded our dues by the NDDC. We should worry about the enviromental degradation in the communities. We should boarder yourself about the communities challenges.” Alozie maintained that he was disturbed that rather than take up their mantle as the main opposition in the state, both leaders and members of the faction were busy chassing the shadow rather than the object. Advising Nna Nworgu, he said, “What he needs to do is to go all out to ensure quality representation of the people to justify the confidence of the president has reposed in him to the admiration of both his supporters and the opposition. While addressing newsmen in Umuahia, the Publicity Secretary of the faction, Comrade Benedict Godson said there was a unanimous rejection of the nominee by the members during a stakeholders meeting of the APC. The publicity secretary said, “We call on the presidency to verify the man whose name was sent to them and see if he is worthy to be there. They can make inquiries about Abia and ask who Nwogu Nwogu is. He stressed that the essence of establishing the NDDC was to ensure the rapid development of the communities, appealing that “We need a representative in that position who understands our plight. 