The Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) says it has granted nine Outline Business Case (CBC) and 9 Full Business Case (FBC) Compliance Certificates for 2019. The figure brings the total compliance certificates granted since inception to 76 OBC and 31 FBC certificates. The latest of these certificates is the OBC Compliance Certificate for the 22 Teaching Hospitals upgrade and the FBC Compliance Certificate for the Automated Ticketing System for the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Director-General of the Commission, Engr Chidi KC Izuwah said during a pre-event press briefing in Abuja yesterday. Engr Izuwah also disclosed that the Commission is organising a 3-day workshop for next week in Abuja with the theme: Strengthening Women’s Involvement in PPP/SWIP3) – to chart a course for the integration of women in Public Private Partnership infrastructure projects. The DG said the Commission will incorporate key women considerations in the lifecycle that will eliminate the present gender disparities in its PPP processes, procedures and execution for positive impact on women. “No doubt, the integration of gender perspectives in our infrastructure development, especially in PPP design and implementation, will greatly address many gaps in our infrastructure delivery, particularly as they affect women,” he said. Engr Izuwah who said the initiative will be driven down the States of the federation, maintained that the workshop will hold between October 2nd to October 4th, 2019 in Abuja in partnership with the Australian government. Nigeria’s first lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari will deliver the keynote address at the event that will host local and International dignitaries. The forum is expected to enrich the nation’s PPP policies and guidelines and place it in a better position to attain the much-needed inclusion and gender parity in our PPP infrastructure development process. Describing it as the first of such in Africa, he said the programme would focus group discussions on gender and SDGs in PPP guidelines, transaction advisory training and feature a gender in PPPs workshop. Izuwah said, would change the way and manner the nation develops, designs, procures, operates and monitors PPP infrastructure. The conference is expected to develop Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that will guide PPP projects delivery that is sensitive to women needs. The event, the first of its kind in Africa he said is designed to consider ways of adopting best practice examples to achieve the integration of gender at all levels of the PPP delivery lifecycle in Nigeria. 