President Muhammadu Buhari reassigned the finance ministry portfolio to Hajia Zainab Ahmed, a move that can easily be interpreted as an affirmation of her ability to deliver on policies. The President also added the budget and national planning beat to her schedules. In simple terms, it means that the Kaduna-born technocrat, unarguably, is in charge of two of the most important ministries in the country. In a way, it can be considered that the performance of the Buhari administration is invariably dependent on the success of Mrs Ahmed as finance minister having been saddled with the responsibility of pushing the diversification agenda, increased revenue and pursuing vigorously the Economic Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP). We have no  doubt that the Finance minister has the capacity to succeed having held the same portfolio in the twilight of Buhari’s first term, after her initial stint  as the minister of state budget and national planning. This time, she will be assisted by Clement Ikanade Agba, the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning. Sadly, the nation’s economic indices are not good at the moment. According to the World Poverty Clock compiled by Brookings Institute, Nigeria has overtaken India as the country with the largest number of people living in extreme poverty, with an estimated 87 million Nigerians under the burden of excruciating poverty. Also, data made available by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) have shown that the number of unemployed Nigerians has risen to 20.9 million from 17.6 million in 2018. Also, experts have expressed misgivings over the country’s rising debt as the Debt Management Office (DMO) in April disclosed that Nigeria’s total debt profile as of December 31, 2018, stood at N24.387 trillion. The figure swelled by 12.25 per cent from N21.725 trillion in 2017 to N24.39 trillion in 2018.The debt profile rose by N2.66 trillion from December 31, 2017, to December 31, 2018. But the Finance minister allayed fears of a possible debt trap when she said that Nigeria does not have a debt problem at the moment but rather a revenue challenge. One worrisome aspect of the country’s fiscal system is the budget which has become more or less like a ritual with little or no impact on the lives of Nigerians. This is attributable to poor implementation, poor planning and corruption. Regrettably, in the opinion of this newspaper, since 1999, Nigeria has not been able to achieve more than 40 per cent implementation of the budget. Recall that early this year, the 8th Senate criticised the Federal Government over what it described as the poor implementation of the 2018 budget, and noted that Nigerians were not feeling the impact of governance because of the failure of the executive to adequately fund the budget. The Senate had also blamed the government for not releasing adequate funds that would enable the federal agencies to execute developmental projects. Public perception is also that the executive hardly provides adequate funds for projects as every year the same projects appear on the budget. The legislature which is supposed to hold the executive accountable for poor budget implementation has turned the oversight functions into an avenue for extortion, with allegations of sundry misdemeanour becoming so pervasive. It is however gratifying to note that the executive has promised to return the budget cycle to January to December and the National Assembly has always given assurances that they will pass the budget before Christmas provided they receive the appropriation bill in September. That implies that the finance minister has a lot on her plate as the country’s economy is currently haemorrhaging and her first assignment is getting the 2020 appropriation bill ready in September as demanded by the lawmakers. This entails getting the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) ready also. It goes without saying that crude oil has been the mainstay of the Nigerian economy over the years and things need to change fast. Since crude oil prices have been fluctuating, we urge the finance minister to devise concrete economic policies to absorb low oil price shocks. This is where other sources of internally generated revenue comes in. Recently, the presidency queried the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) on the “variances between budget and actual collection” of taxes between 2015 and 2018. Although there is need to aggressively increase revenue, it should not be done in a manner that will become a disincentive to businesses. It is from this perspective that it becomes imperative for the minister to take a look at multiple taxation, especially for the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) which are the backbone of the economy. This tax policy, it needs to be emphasised, is asphyxiating businesses in Nigeria. In our view, improving on tax collectables is advisable to the extent that it does not harm the economy itself and stymie its growth. What is required is a delicate balancing act. 