The Paramount Ruler of Woji Community in Obio/Akpor local government area  of Rivers State, Eze Emeka George Ihunwo, has lauded Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for setting up the State Taskforce On Street Trading, Illegal Markets and Motor Parks. Wike had on August 21, 2019, inaugurated taskforce, with a charge to the officials to sanitise the streets and return Port Harcourt to its Garden City status. Ihunwo, who spoke to LEADERSHIP Sunday in Port Harcourt, said within few days, the taskforce had brought sanity on the streets of the Rivers State capital, and urged them to extend their services to Woji Community. He said: *To start with, I have called the Chairman of that taskforce to come to Woji as a matter of urgency. They are doing a very great job. That taskforce that the Rivers State government set up is in tandem with what we are doing here in Woji before this time concerning street trading. “The people are in fact causing nuisance. Even when many of them have the opportunity to go into the market, they have refused to go and they try to create nuisance on the roads all the time. So far, the work of that committee is quite commendable.” The monarch, frowned at the activities of fake officials of the taskforce, called for the arrest and prosecution of anyone caught impersonating officials of the agency. Ihunwo said: “I think the governor at the inauguration of the committee warned them against touting or collecting money from people. “I have also on several occasions heard the Chairman of the committee, Chief Hon. Bright Amaewhule said they have authority to arrest. If they see such persons, they should arrest and prosecute them.” He stated that although Woji Community had never experienced flooding before, the leadership of the community has taken steps to ensure that the community is safe following recent predictions of the Nigerian Metrological Agency (NIMET). The traditional ruler said: “By the grace of God, Woji has never been flooded from time immemorial, maybe, because of where God has kept us. Before this civilization, Woji was like a Peninsula. You will come in through one road and through that same road you will go out. We were surrounded by water. The left is river, the right is river. “With the effort the government has made here. When I say government, I mean the Rivers State government, under the leadership of Chief Barrister Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, the Executive Governor of Rivers State. That government meant well and has done so much for the people of Woji Community. You can see that other road you see here terminates in the river. “But, we are not trying to take nature for granted. We have continue to tell our people on the need not to dump their refuse or gabbage into drainages and to ensure that drainages in their individual houses are always open.” 