The executive director of SystemSpecs, Deremi Atanda has urged private stakeholders to develop programmes that can aid the advancement of the nation.Atanda disclosed this at the conclusion of the Abuja version of a two-week long Remita Summer Coding Camp, recently.According to him, the inaugural Remita Summer Coding Camp was designed to bequeath secondary school students with requisite coding skills to thrive in the future workplace and stimulate national capacity development. He said with the projected future jobs leaning heavily towards technology-based skills, it is imperative to instill the necessary skills in the next generation at a foundational level in order to give them a proper head start on their counterpart across the globe. ‘‘What we are doing now is a direct intervention. Once this is done, it will build capacity to address the limited school curriculum that does not make enough provision for inculcating technology skills. “We are pro-Nigeria; we believe Nigeria has what it takes to compete globally but government cannot solve all the problems. We think it is up to players in the private sector to consciously and conscientiously support government. Government may not always get it right and we must not stop at criticising, but we must also find ways to complement whatever government is doing,’’ he said. Atanda also said SystemSpecs remains resolute in its bid to promote Nigeria and ensure that the nation takes its rightful place at the zenith of the African technology space. Meanwhile,  former chief executive officer of Nigerian Communications Commission, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe commended SystemSpecs on the initiative, stating that the impact exceeds expectation and entreated the company to persist at it. The non-executive director of SystemSpecs said the fact that the students have clear understanding of what they were taught, “Gives me hope and gets me even excited for the future of our country.” Dr. Ndukwe also entreated other private sector stakeholders to advance national development by emulating SystemSpecs on such programmes. The Remita Summer Coding Camp featured participants from over 20 schools across 10 states of the country plus the Federal Capital Territory. The camp which was organised in both Lagos and Abuja comprised of exciting programmes including web fundamentals, robotics, animation, game design.