 Three firms’ listing has lifted Nigerian stock market capitalisation by N1.805 trillion in eight months to close at N13.391 trillion from N11.586 trillion which it opened for the year. The impressive impact on the market came from the listing of MTN Nigeria, Airtel Africa and Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL). Although performance across sectors was bearish during the period under review, checks by LEADERSHIP revealed that the All-Share Index, which opened the trading year at 31,070.06 points, closed on August 30, 2019 at 27,525.81 points, recording a year-to-date loss of 12.42 per cent. NSE Oil and Gas index topped the decline by 34.35 per cent as a result of the drop in global oil prices. NSE Consumer Goods Index followed with a fall of 29.74 per cent, while NSE Banking Index shed 19.49 per cent in the first eight months of the year. NSE Insurance Index depreciated by 15.52 per cent while NSE Industrial Goods shed 11.85 per cent. Market analysts attributed the volatility seen lately to low inflow as smart money continues sitting on the sidelines, observing the country’s mixed macro-economic indices in hope for economic reform policies capable of stimulating productivity and consumption. Speaking on the equities’ market performance, the managing director of Highcap Securities, Mr. David Adonri, said that the build-up to 2019 general elections had negative effects on the capital market, stressing that post-election activities of the current administration worsened the situation, coupled with weak economic indicators. He maintained that the federal government’s inability to announce clear-cut economic policies was taking a toll on investors’ confidence, adding that the government needed to come up with viable economic policies this month. Also, the managing director/chief executive officer, APT Securities Limited, Mr. Kasimu Garba Kurfi, attributed the equities’ market weak performance to election year, budget delay, and absence of fiscal policies, among others. According to him, the market always experience low performance of the index on an election coupled with the non-passage of the 2019 budget on time by 8th the National Assembly. Kurfi further identified other factors that contributed to the weak performance of the equities’ market as the absence of sustained fiscal policies, lack of comprehensive economic policy statement which could have attract foreign Investors into the market as well as the delayed-release of the ministerial list by President Muhammadu Buhari. The firm chief added that Airtel Africa listing and the announcement of ministers are expected to boost the market in the second half of the year. He said:  “The listing of Airtel may push the ASI index into positive or recovery. Besides, the release of ministerial list in August will enhance the capital market positive performance. “The half-year results released, especially with interim dividends, will help the market to recover,” Kurfi added. The chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting Limited, Mr. Ambrose Omordion, said: “We expect the mixed performance to continue in the midst of profit-taking at a time of prevailing low liquidity, oscillating oil price, even as the general market composite index nears it major bottom in the coming weeks. “Also, we see the likelihood of a slowdown in Nigeria’s expected second quarter (Q2) Gross Domestic Market (GDP) data. Market players’ speculations ahead of third quarter (Q3) earnings reports in October, taking advantage of the seeming improvement in some other economic indices released recently, as well as corporate earnings showing the true position of Nigeria’s listed companies,” Omordion. He, however, said that long-term investors are reshuffling their portfolios in anticipation of interim earnings reports of dividend-paying companies. Omordion said that discerning investors should target value stocks considering the current low valuation as they position for dividend income and capital gains, especially as the market’s Price to Earnings ratio remains attractive at 5.45x, which is well below the 8.24x average of its peers and its 9.56x five-year average. “The current situation has revealed the existence of value and the high upside potential for a rally. But then, wait to confirm reversal before jumping into a new position,” he said. Looking forward, he added that investors should consider the expected economic reforms as President Buhari had assigned portfolios to the ministers. He said that the “Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had earlier rolled out plans to boost productivity and investment by instructing the banks to lend more to the private sector. This is aimed at reducing banks’ participation in government securities and lending more to the private sector to drive economic growth. “There is also the likely impact of portfolio repositioning for the last quarter of the year ahead of Q3 financials in the midst of analysing Q2 numbers and unfolding political events,” Omordion said.