As part of the requirements for the establishment of a seaport, the Cross River state government has been issued an Outline Business Case, OBC certificate for the construction of its deep seaport. The state governor, Ben Ayade, who revealed this in Abuja, said he came for the OBC at the Federal Ministry of Transportation. He noted that the certificate would enable the state move on to the next level of implementation of the seaport. Ayade was received at the ministry by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Ayade said, “The certificate is an Outline Business Case. It shows that there is a full densification commitment of the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Transportation to say yes we have come to recognise and accept that Cross River State Government should go ahead with the Full Business Case, FBC, towards the construction of a deep seaport. “And the emphasis on the deep seaport is agro-industrial, not exclusively, but to show that the core target is to do an agro-industrial transformation of Nigeria. It will be the major leading port in that respect but will have other industrial parks.” He said the issuance of the OBC by the Federal Government through its Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission was the fastest ever recorded in Nigeria. On when actual construction would commence at the seaport, Ayade said, “Work started there more than six months ago when we got the EIA approval which allowed us the legal right to get access to the ocean. “But right now with this OBC certificate, we are going to be dealing directly with the concessionaires towards arriving at the specific location, data and commencement of actual work plans. But that can only come with the FBC.” Meanwhile, Amaechi explained that with the OBC, the state would move on to the next step of action. According to him, “What they have got right now is the OBC. We will take the next move to verify all the necessary instruments that we need and then proceed back to the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission for the FBC before we go to cabinet for approval. “But the most important thing is that we are speeding it up so as to enable those states who want to invest in seaports and others to go ahead and do so. Speaking on  whether the federal government was partnering Cross River state in the deep seaport, Amaechi said, “We will get to that. We will sit down with the Cross River state government and their major  partners and see how much NPA would want to invest.”