Fifty million dollars is to be spent by the United State Agency for International Development USAID, for  the promotion of agribusiness investment activity in Cross River State. Chief of  Party (COP) of the USAID ‘Feed The Future’ FTF,  funded Nigeria in Agribusiness Investment Activity, Dr. Adam Saffer disclosed this while fielding questions from journalists  shortly after speaking at the  Nigeria Agribusiness Finance and Investment Summit held in Calabar . Saffer who spoke on the theme; Challenges, opportunities/ solutions, in a public private dialogue, averred that stated amount will come into the state in form of technical assistance to assist players of the sector witness a breakthrough in their businesses. On the issue of investment promotion, Saffer maintained that  it goodwill help to  catalyze  new agribusiness investments, adding that agribusiness investment activity will improve the investment readiness of agribusiness, supports enterprises with domestic and international investors. “Through a demand- driven, private sector-led value chain approach, this component directly supports agribusiness with technical assistance in areas such as improving product quality and identifying investment opportunities. “With the project, players of agribusiness can be rest assure of getting business development services, with support in strategic partnership, strengthened market linkages and competiveness of small holder farmers to take advantage of emerging investment opportunities. “We want them to have an attitudinal change and see agriculture as a business rather than seeing it as subsistence. The  money  which I am talking about isn’t in my pocket, “If such amount is  to be given to the players of the  industry in cash,  it  will be like  giving fish to people  to eat rather than  teaching them how to catch fish. The money is resting with the banks, with the investors, with the government, federal and state governments. “Our job is far more valuable than giving a few grants. Our job is to put together this players and convince the banks and investors that these are good investments, support the investments to make sure that there are delivered”. He said,”We are going to bring in experts from World Street and investment bankers to look at our plans and perhaps figure out different ways and suggest to state government maybe two or three different methods to get fund on domestic investment into this factories”. He enumerated the organization’s objectives to include improving agribusiness enabling environment, expanding access to agribusiness Finance and facilitating agribusiness investment. The MD enumerated states that will get  technical assistance to thrive in agribusiness in Nigeria to  include Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Kaduna, Kebbi and Niger, across five value chains of  aquaculture,  cowpea, maize, rice, and soybean stressing  that his organization is ready to go extra mile to ensure that it attracts investors from international market to  invest in the  state to assist  agribusiness witness  a boom. He said, “We know government alone cannot run any business, because government is not good at that. “We are bringing experts of international repute from investment banks to look at our plans and perhaps figure out different ways and suggest to state government maybe two or three different methods to get fund on domestic investment into this factories”. “We are working with public and private Sector partners, including agribusiness, financial institutions, investment groups and business development services providers to facilitate greater engagement with MSMEs and potential agro-entrepreneurs in their value chain”. He stressed. He urged farmers in agribusiness to collaborate with one another in order to place themselves on vantage positions that will assist them access aides or negotiate inputs when need be. “What we do is to assist them unlock money.  “We have already unlocked a pipeline of 20m dollars in six months and we are going to again unlock 300million dollars to the states. “If you have 10m dollars grants. If i have 10million dollars grant across 7 states, I will be giving 20,000 dollars to fifty and perhaps a hundred thousand dollars here and there, remember, it is only a few people who   will get that. “For those who got the money, some will do well, while others may failed. We have five years to bring up 300million dollars into play with Nigerians. “The only people who are going to fix Nigeria are Nigerians, and it’s going to be done by Nigerians. 