Chief Ndutimi Alaibe is a household name in the politics of Bayelsa State and a frontline aspirant among the 21 gladiators vying for the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. In this interview with newsmen, Alaibe bares his mind on the forthcoming Governorship primary as well as issues affecting the state. OSA OKHOMINA was there for LEADERSHIP You have been aspiring to govern Bayelsa State since 2003. Why did you choose to run again? Besides, are you sure there will be a level playing ground at the primary?  I have answered this question severally but I will keep saying it. I am a full blooded Bayelsa man. My mother and my father are Bayelsa people. Sometimes, some allude to Lagos; I am in Lagos for occupational reason. I schooled here at Kaiama. So, I understand the economic, infrastructural, socio-political and the environmental challenges of this land perfectly. I even did research and during the period of our Niger Delta regional development master plan, we were involved in the diagnostic review. So, I know the challenges. Over time, I had wanted to be governor so that I can address these things because I believe I have the capacity and exposure to do that, having run an organisation that still exists and has 145 local government areas. So, running an eight local government area state, I believe will be not be difficult. Use a small place as experiment or as module, and then expand from there. So, I have been itching to do this because I have love for my state. If those gaps had been fundamentally attended to, I would not be itching for this because I also have some private sector works that I was doing. But the point is that I have experience to bring to bear, that project implementation is seamless. I can provide that service. It is also about capacity and political will, and leadership. When you want to talk about implementation, you have to have appropriate knowledge and capacity to do it. And I keep flogging the point that private sector experience and expertise is key in terms of implementing economic activities. I have been in government from the private sector angle and I knew that when I went into government, I turned things even around. When I arrived at 8:00am and people were not there, I locked the gate. It happened there in my days in NDDC, the discipline of private sector needs to be brought into governance. And that is key. If the private sector practitioners come to talk to us, and as a leader in government you are not able to speak their language, forget it. You don’t have the appropriate discipline and experience on the table, forget it. If your projects are bankable and your projects don’t have any plans for repayment, forget it. So, to attract such capital and to even implement those things need particular skills and these are the things I am putting on the table.  What is your relationship with Governor Seriake Dickson? There is nothing wrong with my relationship with Governor Seriake Dickson, we don’t have any fundamental issue. It is political time, so people will be suspecting different things. He is the governor of our state and we give him that respect. He is also a leader that we all adore. We will continue to give him that respect; we do not have any issue. I don’t know whether you have heard of any. There is no altercation and we don’t have any.  What is that significant thing that makes you outstanding from the rest of the pack? Thank you, this gives me an opportunity to talk to our delegates and I have been doing quite a lot of talk with some of them. I say that you must as you go and elect your leader, try as much as possible to seek the face of God in doing that because it is for another four years. And these four years will be a period that is critical to our state, our communities and our people. How the next government impacts on your lives is critical and I believe that I have that capacity and competence to be able to implement programmes and projects and policies that will help to turn around the fortunes of our state, especially on the economy. And I have the experience even in projects implementation in Bayelsa State and some of you know in your communities some of these projects have been implemented when I was not governor. So, I am putting my Curriculum Vitae on the table against the pack of all of others who are also credible Bayelsans, leaders who also have their various capacities. I am saying to our delegates compare and contrast those who have a clear vision to help our state grow and then those who are waiting for the thing to fall on their lap. I am not that type, I am not an accidental leader. I prepare myself for leadership and our state does not need accidental leaders at this time. We have to be deliberate in picking a leader. So, I enjoin all delegates to support me in this exercise so that together we can impact and make a new lease of life game change for our state and I do this to the glory of God, not for myself but to the glory of the Almighty God and for our state.  The party primaries comes up on Tuesday, you did not get the ticket do you intend to leave or you work for the party? Yes, I have been a contender for several years and I have told you why I do that because I love this state and I’m not a desperate politician against what some people think. I have stepped down for people at various times. When it comes to time when people want to run amok with violence I don’t have anything to gain from the blood of any Bayelsan that will be lost for me to be governor, otherwise I won’t sleep well and that blood will hunt me. And I have been a victim of such circumstances where I was attacked and I preach non-violence and insist on non-violence with everybody working with me. Do not carry guns to make me governor. I am not interested in that. I am interested in ensuring that we conduct a free, fair, transparent process that will enable a leader emerge. If a leader emerges from that, I don’t have any choice than to support such leader. Power is from God, I won’t force myself. I see myself coming on a mission to resolve a problem that I see, the gap which I see and I have skills set for. So, don’t expect me to be jumping from one place to the other because I want to be governor. I won’t do that.  What is your plan in developing the SMEs and the issue of multiple taxation because this is affecting small business owners in Bayelsa? We are going to be deliberate in terms of SMEs. Eighty per cent of the Brazilian economy is powered by SMEs and SMEs are key. Where you do not have small businesses that are what I will call ‘feed stock’ to some of the big ones, then it’s not going to be sustainable. We are going to create an environment where private sector capital can come from. Ultimately, I will talk about the SDGs in partnership funds. There are quite a lot of such partnership funds in the SDGs that will support SMEs and they need to be exploited. You need to have skills to attract such funds. If you don’t have skills, you cannot. And we can help you to make your projects bankable so that you access such funds and get government support. I know about multiple taxation. As a businessman, I also suffer it when we move things and so we are going to deal with that. Tax is out of profit and when you tax loss nothing comes out and I keep telling people you can only share profit, not loss.  Every past government dwelt on the economy during  their campaigns and failed to make the desired impact due to appointment of people to manage the economy based on political patronage and not competence. How are you going to get this right? You need to know where I am coming from and it will be irregular for me to be called a politician. I am not a politician per say, I am a private sector man in politics. So, given that background, we have said certain things and we will make sure we keep our promises.  What will be the place of women if you are given the opportunity? I am a gender sensitive person and as you know, I used to be married to a woman who had an NGO in the Niger Delta called the Family Reorientation Education and Empowerment (FREE) and she was very passionate about the girl child and women. I learnt quite a lot from her. Women education is key, women empowerment is key. Some of our mothers didn’t know how to recognise or know what the naira numbers look like until her literacy school came on board and they recognised naira by the colour at the time. And those schools empowered a lot of our women and she moved on then to do women cooperatives for farmers for processing of farm produce and so on. Even the special skills of knowing how to bake cakes, making of hair, the SME type. So  I learnt quite a lot from my wife and that has given us the frame work to design the activities we have for our women. Some of them are more or less empowerment programmes that will give our women the necessary comfort and to build themselves as entrepreneurs which links me to the SME support thing. From my experience in banking, when you lend money to women they always pay back. Ninety-nine per cent of the women paid back, I’m not saying the men are bad but they (women) are very conscious of their obligations. So, we are going to empower women, extend facilities to make them entrepreneurs and give them that self worth. The women in Balogun market (Lagos) are not better than the Bayelsa women. The women that travel to Dubai to bring in goods are not better than Bayelsa women; the women that set up small factories, farmlands and cooperatives are not better. So, we are going to dedicatedly empower our women.  What is your plan regarding reorientation of our people against vices? The whole gamut of our policy for rehabilitating our people entails value reorientation and I believe in values. While we were growing up, we used to have the discipline of eating together, it was one plate of food. It was one plate of pounded yam or starch and it was one plate of soup and there was no quarrel among five brothers or sisters and we sat down to eat. There was a discipline of how to share plate of soup. That’s how our families grew and when we saw our fathers and mothers, we knelt down to greet them. We used to do that, those things help. We need to go back there, that is the foundation. Some mothers don’t even know where their children are, a child drives a car to you and you don’t even know what he does and how the car arrives. So, there is loss of leadership at the strategic detail level in the home. Loss of leadership in the community and loss of leadership at the wider local government level and we need to now set strategies to go back to do those things that we used to do starting from the foundation, and value reorientation is key. And I want to thank you for that question because it ties up with our DDR programme, it ties up with our community engagement processes that we are going to do because there must be focused group discussions with communities to know what their aspirations are as we go ahead.