The unbeatable combination of what it takes to glue listeners to their radio anywhere they go, coupled with coaxed and confident elegance has earned James Xpensive , a popular On Air Personality (OAP), a broadcaster, musician, comedian and a motivational speaker the admiration and respect of many. His radio programmes Closing Jolly Jolly, Go Slow Debate and Demsay Demsay which shuts down every other radio programme from 9pm Mondays through Fridays and Make We Praise Baba Godey every Sunday is the many reasons his fans look forward to hear him speak every day. In this interview with STELLAMARIES AMUWA, the head of station Cool – Wazobia FM and Nigeria Info bears it all on his journey so far. Speaking on how he combines singing, broadcasting and comedy. He said “I do virtually everything that relates to positivity of life”. What inspired your decision into what you do today? Poverty inspired me, I’m from a very poor background .My father was a military man and we grew up not having the essentials of life. We eat rice once in a week, that is on Sundays and Christmas is very special to me then, because we eat lots of rice from neighbours and family. Whenever my father slaughters chicken we gets so thrilled and we make sure everyone in the neighborhood gets to know that we can afford to slaughter a chicken. To us then, it was like winning an award. I attended public schools, I never had an early education because of poverty but I was able to manage myself. My father was never there, though then, he will always brag about how he intends to train all his children to become university graduates but he ended up not training anyone of the seven of us. Growing up then, whenever I see people eating egg and bread; I always look forward to when I will afford to eat same. We lived in a room and parlour apartment in the barracks then with toilet outside the building, sleeping on the matrass was a luxury. It was not easy but I was determined to get out of poverty so I strived to better my life and become what I admire in people whom I felt had it all. What has been your driving force at this point? I believed I could do virtually everything positive because I discovered my talents. I don’t see impossibility, I am a man of policy and my kind of background propelled me to do the things I am engaged in right now. I started as a stand- up Comedian in 1989 and it was so difficult because I discovered that if you are good you suffer more in the industry but it never deterred me, I was focused. I could not break barriers with comedy so I went into music. I got inspired to assist people because that was what I saw Jesus doing in a dream I had early in life. After that encounter I told my mother that I would like to be a Reverend Father but she vehemently discouraged me, saying that she want to carry her grand-children meaning that if I become a Reverend Father I will not be allowed to get married not to talk of having children. Another time I was watching the television and I saw Harry Mosco – Sugarcane Baby Crooner and as he was performing people where gathered around him, there and then I got the inspiration again and I said I will do all it takes to be loved by people though it was not easy. I went to Premiere Music in Ikeja, Lagos and I was asked to pay hundred and ten thousand Naira to record, since I do not have such money then I left. There was a drama group then that shows on the Television called Jaguar Nana and I wanted to be part of them, I told my Dad and he said go and join them, enter the T.V. so one day as he left for work I felt the I had the opportunity to meet the Jaguar so I used the screw driver and open the back of the television but got disappointed when I saw some bottle-like object and I could not enter and there was no Jaguar inside the T.V. I managed and screwed up the mess. At a point while growing up my parent broke up and we went our separate ways I got into acting for a while then went into production and after a while I worked with Tajudeen and I presented two episodes of Laugh Pattern with Saka. I was part of the cast of Dance of Shame but at a point I could not meet up for lack of logistics I was dropped. I got into broadcasting after a lot of struggle in 2001, I went to Federal Radio Corporations Nigeria {FRCN}, after that I worked with Galaxy Television as a volunteer for about four years from there to Super Screen then Star Fm as a Freelance and then to Radio Nigeria as an Intern and at last I started again with Radio Nigeria 3 which is now BON FM and then to WAZOBIA FM. You saw yourself helping people in that dream, how close are you to achieving that goal?
Yea, I have a non-governmental organization-Help One Foundation by God’s grace, we have been able to touch people who are in needs I have lots count of the number of people we have so far assisted with cash and other valuable items, like widow empowerment, scholarships for less privileged and out of school children, skill acquisition to empower youth and disabled people. What have been your challenges so far? With regards to what I do now, I don’t see anything as a challenge because I see myself as a perfectionist. It’s all about getting solutions to things and I am happy doing what I do right now. Going on-air for me is no longer a job but a passion that is why all the time you hear my voice strong on air. The only thing I know is that broadcasting is a sensitive job because we have regulator that listens to you at all point and any mistake made by us is attracts sanctions and disciplines since they are the law makers they are always right. My challenges are the regulators because they have guidelines, I cannot express myself the way I would have loved to but regards to delivery on my job I don’t have any challenge. What would you say is your memorable childhood experience? While in Primary school, I had a group called the Bosawa and we were within the ages of 8 to 11 years. we were given an assignment to submit on Monday and somehow the six of us failed to submit the assignment and when it was time for break the teacher left some marked and un-marked assignment by the time he came back to the class we had added our notebooks to the marked ones. Somehow the teacher discovered our trick and sorted out our notebooks. After spanking us he insisted we must fetch water for him, we did that but I had to convince another friend of mine and we conspired and urinated into the water before taking it to the teacher. Up till this moment I never knew how he discovered what we did because he made us pour that water into another teachers drum. I feel remorseful each time I remember that moment. You have a large fan in Abuja how did you get there? I give God the glory; my relationship with people did the magic. I speak one on one with my fans; I am far from the elite I relate more with the grassroots people. What is your advice to your fans? My mission was to break the yoke of poverty in my family and by the grace of God I have achieved it, the advice I have for my fans out there is discover yourself, know what you want in life. Do not allow anybody to choose carrier for you, they can guide you but not chose for you. Know you creator and wait for your time; it took me 20 years to get to where I am today. Tell us a bit about your family? I am married with children; I was born in the late 70s. I am a Nigerian because of segregation I don’t talk about my state or tribe. I just want to remain and be known as a Nigerian not from any tribe. When we see ourselves first as Nigerian crisis and issues arising from ethnicity will reduce. What does fashion and style mean to you? Fashion and style is a normal everyday thing. I don’t have a flamboyant dress style, I believe less is more. I don’t go extra miles to wear bling bling. Fashion and style is just normal for me. I appreciate the people that made me; I mean my fans (laughter) I call them my air-conditioners in my own term not fans because they are beyond fans. I am a moderate person; I am contended with what I have. I am a believer not necessarily a Christian or a Muslim but I believe in God.