The acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu has assured that he would ensure that issue of extra-judicial killings rampant in the Nigeria Police Force is a thing of the past in the country. The IG disclosed on Thursday at the inauguration of Zonal Security Stakeholders Forum held at Zone XI Command Headquarters, Osogbo. Osun State. As a strategic approach towards reducing incidents of fatalities associated with misuse of firearms, the Nigeria Police boss hinted that they are in the process of migrating from total dependence on lethal weaponry. Adamu who was represented by DIG Taiwo Lakanu identified misuse of firearms as a major factor that engender conflict and distrust between the citizens and the police, saying instead of lethal weaponry the police is looking into the area of using less lethal weaponry such as Taste or Stun Guns during routine patrols, arrest duties and civil disorder management. He added that in an attempt to reduce the stress associated with misuse of firearms and extra-judicial actions by police, he had earlier in the day ordered that with immediate effect, the shift duty structure of the Nigeria Police which is currently a 12-hour, 2-shifts system should be reverted to the traditional 8-hour, 3-shifts shift standard. According to him, the Zonal Security Stakeholders’ Forum is being inaugurated as a community policing concept which is designed to galvanize the people of Osun, Ondo and Oyo states towards identifying and partnering to address peculiar security challenges in the three states. Welcoming guests to the event, the AIG,  Zone X1, Adeleye Oyegbade stressed the importance of collaborative efforts towards combating crime adding that security is the business of everyone. According to him, while it cannot be denied that the Nigeria Police is doing its best to protect Nigerians and defend our democracy, criminality still occur in some parts of the country. He appreciated the contribution of governors of Ondo, Oyo and Osun States including some eminent citizens of the three states for their support to the police morally, materially and financially towards combating crime in the region. The governors of Osun, Oyo and Ondo states pledged their commitment to continue to support the police in the task of fighting criminality in their respective states. In their goodwill messages, Ataoja of Osogbo, Deji of Akure, Oluwo of Iwo urged the Federal government to fund security sector and involve traditional rulers fully in community policing. 