Rangers International of Enugu played out a 1-1 draw with Lobi Stars of Makurdi in a rescheduled Nigeria Professional Football League game at Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium, yesterday. Rangers returned to Cathedral after a back to back away win over Katsina United and Sunshine Stars of Akure and hope to continue their winning streak. The game started with the home side dominating the game and should have taken the lead in the 14th minute as Michael Uchebo robs Monsuru Bashiru of the ball and comes face to face with Ospino who keeps out his effort. The Flying Antelopes continued their dominance as Pascal Seka was put through on goal but a moment of hesitation by the Ivorian allows Solomon Kwambe ghost behind him to make a superb block to end the first half. Three minutes after the break , Rangers’ Ifeanyi Egwim makes his first appearance at The Cathedral for the first time since October 2, 2016. He replaces Michael Uchebo. Lobi Stars had a chance to go in front in the 52nd as Michael Stephen beats Oladuntoye down the left and cuts back for Dare Ojo whose first time effort flies inches wide of the top corner. Rangers finally took the lead in the 61st minute after referee points to the spot following Kelly Kester’s challenge on his former Sharks teammate, Ibrahim Ajani and Godwin Aguda makes no mistake, as he sent Ospino Egbe the wrong way. Rangers almost doubled their lead with fifteen minutes remaining, Nana Bonsu’s long kick causes chaos in the Lobi box. Godwin Aguda applies the final effort which Egbe saves at his near post. Lobi Stars finally levelled the scores on the dot of 90 minutes, Solomon Kwambe curls home a peach of a free kick from 25 yards. The ball goes in off the underside of the cross bar and left Nana Bonsu stranded. There was still a finally chance for Rangers to snatch a late win in 93rd minutes, ifeanyi Egwim latches onto Seka Pascal’s flick but his right-footed effort which beat the goalkeeper narrowly, agonisingly goes wide. Following the draw, Rangers extends their lead on the log of Group A to four points over second placed Enyimba who are on 24 points. Lobi Stars remains in fourth position with 22 points, 2 points behind third place MFM FC.