***Insist On National Chairmanship Position/Other Offices A group of Northern Stakeholders in the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) have decried the spate of banditry in the North and demanded an increase in the deployment of security operatives to the region. The APGA stakeholders who stated this in a communiqué after their meeting, also demanded that their party’s national chairmanship position must be zoned to the North, ahead of the national convention. According to the communiqué some of the stakeholders at the meeting are a former national secretary/ secretary of the party’s Board of Trustees and governorship candidate of the party in Zamfara State Alhaji Sani Abdulahi Shinkafi; Mr Polycarp Gankon; state chairmen and secretaries from the Northern States of the Federation and all other Constitutionally recognised members of the National Executive Committee (NEC). The Communique which was signed by Shinkafi and Polycarp Gankon, said, “We want to use this medium to condemn in very strong terms the increasing activities of armed bandits in Northern Nigeria and call on the Federal Government to deploy more security agents in the region to restore peace and stability in the area.” They also condoled with families who have lost loved ones due to the spate of insecurity in the region. On the party’s forthcoming national convention, the group while noting that the gathering must hold in Abuja, called for equity in the distribution of other offices of the party in line with the Federal Character principle. The stakeholders further reaffirmed the provisions of the APGA Constitution Article 18 which deals with the Zoning of party offices, stressing “the Composition of offices of the Executive Committee and other principal organs at the Executive level of the party shall reflect the principal of the Federal Character of Nigeria except in the case of States, Local Government and Wards which are ethically homogeneous, the Composition shall take into account of the electoral delineation of the area. “The meeting further resolved that the National Working Committee of the party fixes the date for the Wards, Local Government, States and National Convention in line with the provisions of Article 19(4) of the APGA Constitution which states as follows; “Tenure of office/election of party officers: Article 19(4) Election into any of the offices of the party shall be on a date fixed by the National Working Committee of the party subject to the approval of the National Executive Committee of the Party. “The Norther Stakeholders reaffirmed that the party shall strictly enforce the zoning/rotations principle of the party offices across six Geo-Graphical zones of the country in the election of the members of the National Working Committee in the next National Convention of the party. They suggested that the forthcoming National convention should take place in Abuja stressing that since the registration of the party only once had the party conducted its National convention in 2003 when Chief Chekwas Okorie was the National Chairman of the party. While they demanded that all the delegates that will attend the convention must be delegates constitutionally recognized by the party constitution, they added, “In a democracy it is our right to choose who will lead us and constitutionally guaranteed the right to contest elections into all the offices as provided by the Constitution of the party. “No more imposition or lopsided zoning of principal officers of the party to one Geo graphical zone we must zone offices in line with the Federal character in Nigeria.”