Interventions of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) aimed at pulling the nation’s textile and garment industry out of the strings of neglect and misfortune appears overambitious; but it will pay off if the relevant stakeholders in both private and public sectors cooperate with the ongoing policy thrust aimed at breathing life into the sector. The Godwin Emefiele led apex bank is engineering deliberate policies from the fiscal authorities to discourage dumping or importation of textile products into Nigeria, with strict boarder protection on one hand; and the buy-in of relevant stakeholders including state governments to achieve the desired goal. Earlier this year, Emefiele held an expanded stakeholders meeting in Abuja, the nation’s capital to examine the challenges faced by operators in the sector, with a focus on identifying promising approaches that will help in revitalizing the sector. He is of the belief that a lot needs to be done in order to ensure that the current administration and Nigeria – by extension, builds an all inclusive economy that supports domestic production of goods and services, while offering job opportunities to teeming Nigerians. He does not hide his passion to achieve that goal. “This is the only option that we have, if we are to insulate our economy from volatility in the crude oil market and in the global financial markets,” said Emefiele when he was addressing the stakeholders at the meeting in his office in March. In order to achieve this goal, the CBN together with other critical stakeholders, recently identified key commodities and products such as textiles and palm oil that have the ability to support the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs in our economy. In 1970’s and early 1980’s, Nigeria was home to Africa’s largest textile industry, with over 180 textile mills in operations, which employed close to over 450,000 people. The nation’s textile industry was the largest employer of labour in Nigeria after the public sector, contributing over 25 per cent of the workforce in the manufacturing sector. The industry was supported by the production of cotton by 600,000 local farmers across 30 of Nigeria’s 36 states. It supported the clothing needs of the Nigerian populace, as the local markets were filled with homemade textiles from companies such as United Textiles in Kaduna, Supertex Limited, Afprint, International Textile Industry (I.T.I), Texlon, Aba Textiles, Asaba Textile Mills Ltd, Enpee and Aswani Mills amongst several others. About 20 years later, it’s now extremely difficult for many textile firms to operate due to neglect and high cost of product. They have faced rising operating cost and weak sales due to high energy cost, smuggling of textile goods into the country, and poor access to finance. Many of them have had to lay off employees. Today, most of the factories mentioned have all stopped operations, as only 25 textile factories are operating today at below 20 percent of their production capacities, and the workforce in Nigeria’s textile industry stands at less than 20,000 people. According to official data from the National Bureau of Statistics, Textile and Garment industry contributed a paltry N969, 445,167.10 million to the nation’s coffers as revenue from Value Added Tax (VAT) in the same period VAT from Transport and Haulage industry reached a high of N15, 811,631,083.17 billion. Nigeria currently spends above $4 billion annually on imported textiles and ready-made clothing. With a projected population of over 180 million Nigerians, the apex bank Boss noted that the needs of the domestic market are huge and varied, with immense prospects, not only for job creation, but also for growth of the domestic textile industries. One quick example that highlights the potential of this local market, includes the need to support provision of uniforms and clothing apparels for students, military and paramilitary officers as well as workers in the industrial sector. That is why the CBN Governor opined that “if we had nurtured and encouraged the textile industry, that sector will be employing millions.” To prove the seriousness of government, the CBN Governor announced restriction of access to foreign exchange for the importation of all types of textile materials with immediate effect. That restriction raises the list of items banned from accessing forex from the official windows to 43. He also mentioned that the apex bank will initially support the importation of cotton lint for use in textile factories, with a caveat that such importers shall begin sourcing   all their cotton needs locally beginning from year 2020. He told the textile operators that the apex bank has established a financial support programme for the textile manufacturers with the provision of funds at single digits rate, “to refit, retool and upgrade their factories in order to produce high quality textile materials for the local and export market.” The CBN did not only place the textile materials on the ban list, it also promised a financial intervention to textile manufacturers with the provision of funds at single digits rate to refit, retool and upgrade their factories to enable them produce high quality textile materials for the local and export market. The implication is that with the CBN’s intervention in the sector, Nigeria is fast on its way to realise the full potentials of the textile and garment sector, given the high domestic demand for textiles, resulting in jobs creation, while increasing production of textiles in Nigeria. Expectedly, the move has long been applauded by operators in the industry. the General Secretary, National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), Mr. Issa Aremu is among those who commended the Central Bank for the  ban on sale of FOREX for importers of textile products. The general opinion on the action is that the CBN had commendably financed development in Nigeria under the leadership of Emefiele, with many citing the Bank’s most successful Anchor Borrowers scheme that had improved rice sufficiency in the country. Those who are keen followers of Emefiele know that he is simply delivering his promise to support the building of a Nigerian economy that is pro-growth and people fashioned. “On assumption of office in June 2014, I indicated in my inaugural speech that one of my key objectives as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria is to focus our energies in building a Central Bank that will devote its energies, on building a resilient financial system that will serve the growth and development needs of our beloved country, Nigeria. “In addition to a focus on key macroeconomic concerns such as moderating inflation and maintaining exchange rate stability, we also feel that the Central Bank of Nigeria must play a more constructive role in supporting Nigeria’s economic development particularly in the Agriculture/ and Manufacturing sectors, given the constraints faced by rural farmers, SMES and Manufacturing companies. Our reason for adopting this posture rest on the believe that, addressing impediments to their growth, will not only strengthen economic growth, but  will also enable the creation of more jobs and foster a more inclusive society.” Emefiele added.