Chalya Wuyep is the CEO of 601events, a Nigerian based event planning and management company. In this interview with KENECHUKWU ENEKWACHI, she speaks on why she into event planning and management. y name is Chalya Wuyep nee Dul. I am from Langtang, Plateau state. I am married to Mr. Nanzing Wuyep and we are blessed with a beautiful daughter, Ms. Elina Yahbyen Wuyep. I have a Bachelor of Arts in English Language from Babcock University, Ogun state. I am a reporter with Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria. Furthermore, I am the CEO of 601 Events, a Nigerian based planning and Management Company.  What informed your decision to venture into event planning? Amongst my friends, I was usually the one organising activities, so one could say it is a natural gift. Consequently, I started an event page @josweddingsnevents to promote the weddings in Jos and Jos vendors. As the page became more active, people began sending messages asking for information about vendors and I would make budget friendly referrals. One day a colleague asked for my help in coordinating her event. Although it was stressful, I realised that I felt extremely happy during the event and enjoyed every bit of the coordination. Amazing reviews came after the event and I continued from there. The rest, they say, is history.  Who taught you? I am a self-taught event planner and I polish my skills by reading a lot online and following other excellent event planners closely.  Hobbies: Planning activities. Traveling to new places. Cooking. Playing in the swimming pool  Secret of Success Transparency and Integrity. Attention to details. Full commitment to clients. First-to-pay, first served client policy.  Achievements -Starting and growing a business from an Instagram page that started as a leisure activity. -Successfully planned and coordinated over 25 premium events including weddings, wedding proposals, birthday celebrations, and child dedications. I have been able to achieve this on varying budgets. -Adding value to the event industry by creating an event called “The Wedding Home” in Jos which is a project that promotes vendors and gives an opportunity to intending couples to have access to discounts from vendors. The second edition is coming up in July 2019.  Regrets No Regrets at all  Challenges The major challenge I usually face is my body size. Most times when I meet with parents of clients they wonder if this “smallie” can handle the event. Another common challenge is indecisive clients who contact me one or two months to their wedding asking for only coordinating of the wedding, and at that point they must have involved some vendors we may not be so comfortable working with in regards to standard.  Future projection(s) -In the next 1-3 years, I see myself as a brand that has impacted and trained a lot of people. -I also plan to be contracted for events internationally. We are available to travel -The Wedding Home will be hosted biannually  Advice If you have a prompt in your heart to start a project, I encourage you to just start, keep it going and do not be deterred. You don’t have to wait until everything is perfect before you start. For up-and-coming event planners, it is important to be very transparent and professional with your clients and vendors.