Lagos State Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode and the Inspector General of Police, Mr Adamu Mohammed on Monday condemned the increasing rate of extra-judicial killings in the country. Speaking at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, Mohammed who was accompanied on a courtesy visit by top Police chiefs to the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode over recent cases of extra-judicial killings recorded in the state, vowed that all the affected officers would be charged to court and made to face the full wrath of the law. He said the affected officers have already been arrested and tried internally, but that they would also face criminal prosecution for such act, which according to him, was against ethics of the Force. The IGP said it was on record that police officers in the State have been performing creditably well, but that the activities of few unscrupulous ones were denting the good work of others. “I came to pay a courtesy visit to the Governor because I am in Lagos State to see the officers and men of the Nigerian Police. I came to talk to them on good behaviour and to remind them of ethics of the job. We are to serve members of the public; we are not their masters, we are their servants. “The officers and men in Lagos State have been doing a lot of good job in fighting crime and they have been succeeding but the acts of few officers out of many in Lagos State are denting the good works that others have done. Responding, Governor Ambode commended the IG for taking it upon himself to promptly address the extra-judicial killings in the State personally, despite his responsibilities across the country, saying it shows responsiveness and seriousness with which the issue was being handled by the police chief. “I want to commend the IG for this visit. Beyond the fact that this is a courtesy visit and like he has said, he is coming promptly to address the issue of extra-judicial killings that have actually taken place in the last few weeks. “So, for the IG to come promptly himself to address issues that relate to public feelings about SARS and actually talking to the officers and men, that means he is taking the responsiveness within the Nigerian Police seriously before we start to address extra issues that border on the citizens. So, I like to commend him on that act of responsiveness and also say that it is what we should emulate in dealing with management issues that relate with our officers. “I empathize with the IG because last week, he was in Zamfara; today he is in Lagos and tomorrow he would be in other places. Policing Nigeria is a big challenge but again he is up to the task and we wish him well in his assignment,” Ambode said. 