Civil Society Organisation (CSO) under the auspices of Bridge that gap has solicited the partnership of Kaduna State House of Assembly towards strengthening the enforcement and implementation of relevant environmental law and policies in the state. This was made known by the Executive Director of the bridge that gap, Miss Gloria Kasang Bulus while presenting the communiqué to the Kaduna Assembly Deputy Speaker, Mr. Nuhu Shadalafiya which was issued at the end of the earth day 2019, celebration which was held at Kaduna State University. Miss Gloria said knowing the kind of person he is as someone who has passion for environment, they need his support in creating a sustainable environment for the citizens of the state. She noted that the environment is the most neglected sector in the state as it is faced with many issues such as drought, lack of water, impact of climate change among others, and these are needed to be looked upon which is why we decided to work with relevant agencies to profer solutions to such issues. Responding, The Kaduna Assembly deputy speaker, Mr. Nuhu Shadalafiya assures them they will look in to it while he encouraged them to strengthen their partnership with the ministry of environment, Kaduna State Environmental Protection Authority (KEPA) and other relevant agencies so as to come up with realistic and working document towards achieving a safe, accommodating and inviting environment for the people of the state. “It will be recalled that the Kaduna Assembly has recently passed the Law on the conservation, management and effective use of forests as well as other issues related to handling of forests which we are sure governor Nasiru Elrufai will ascent to very soon”. He said. It will also be recalled that the Bridge That Gap and partners held the celebration of the earth day on the 18th April, 2019 with the theme: ‘Protect Our Species’ held at the Kaduna State University. The interactive event which brought together various stakeholders from the academia/ researchers, farmers groups, students, media and interested citizens was aimed at creating awareness and better understanding on biodiversity, conservation and human activities that affects species with strategies to enhance species protection and also to promote the restoration of a spectrum of a degraded ecosystem to stem the loss of biodiversity. Meanwhile the CSOs among other things advocated for inclusiveness in environmental governance in Kaduna State to reflect and address environmental issues from grassroots for a more effective and sustainable solution towards addressing environmental issues. They also called on the government to be proactive in combating and ameliorating climate change by exploring the opportunities around the immense research institutions and facilities around the state and the nation at large.