The Minister of Youth and Sports Development Barrister Solomon Dalung, has tasked various stakeholders on the need to develop the game of basketball in the country. Dalung made the called during the inaugural Annual General Assembly of the Nigeria Basketball Federation held In Abuja yesterday. The Minister said that the gathering of basketball stakeholders in the country was an indication of their will to put the sport in its right place. “The call for this Annual General Meeting is not only a pointer to the readiness of this Board and indeed all stakeholders to grow and develop the game of Basketball in Nigeria, but more importantly, to provide an instrument of authority upon which the governance of the Federation will rest. A transparent and credible governance structure, we believe, will boost the confidence of sponsors and attract the private sector to invest more in Sports.” He also lauded Engr Musa Kida led NBBF board for the numerous achievements since it was sworn-in in 2017. “The success and achievements of the NBBF under this Board testifies to this fact. Apart from the upward movement in ranking of our national teams the D’Tigers becoming No 1 in Africa and 32 in the World Ranking and the Women’s Team, D’Tigress being No 2 in Africa and 19 in the World Ranking – the overall success of both teams have improved Nigeria’s image in the world and earned us much respect within the global Basketball family. Dalung promised the Government’s commitment to activating sports as a business in Nigeria and called on all aggrieved stakeholders to join hands to develop the game in the country. Earlier, the NBBF President, Musa Kida in his welcome address, extended his hand of fellowship to all stakeholders. “The present NBBF Board is willing to work with each and every basketball stakeholder in Nigeria devoid of any sentiments. We will continue to do all it takes to carry everyone along. I am using this opportunity once again to call on all basketball stakeholders in Nigeria to join hands with me and my board to enable Nigerian basketball to attain the desired heights.” He emphasized that one of cardinal goals and objectives of the NBBF under his watch is to take basketball to the grassroots so that youths and other stakeholders who have been neglected will have the opportunity of competing right in their backyards and propel them to greater challenges.  Meanwhile, the Federation of International Basketball Associations who were on ground to monitor the AGM confirmed that the body has identified Nigeria as one of the powerhouses in African basketball.  Speaking through its representative, member of the FIBA Africa Central and President African Zone 5, Hesham El Hariri said the apex body will continue to back all responsive federations to grow the game.