Two men have been arrested on suspicion of murder after two women’s bodies were found in an east London flat. Scotland Yard launched the murder probe after the two women’s remains were found reportedly in the freezer of a Canning Town flat which locals say was home to ‘a pimp’. It is feared one of the bodies could be that of Mary Jane Mustafa, a 38-year-old mother-of-two who disappeared last May and is said to have visited the flat. Last night, detectives arrested a 50-year-old man and this morning a 34-year-old man was detained. Neither have been named and they are both currently being questioned. Residents of the area say they fear there could be more bodies stashed in other homes. One neighbour claimed: ‘An officer dealing with this case said there could be more like this in another property – more bodies in a fridge in another property.’ Speaking of a man he’d seen coming and going from the flat, who he knew only as ‘Ali’, the neighbour added: ‘He is a known sex offender and he pimps girls out… he said he is wanted for breaching something.’Police today began a search of a property less than half a mile from where the bodies were found. Local residents say Ms Mustafa had also been seen at that property before she went missing. A neighbour of the latest house searched said it was known as ‘the local crack den’ and the man who lives there is ‘a drug addict who attracts all sorts of waifs and strays’. The neighbour added: ‘This woman disappeared last May but I’d always see her at this house. She’s stay there regularly. ‘A couple of months after she went missing, I asked him where she was, if he’d seen her, and he said “we had an argument so I slung her out”. ‘About three months ago he was burning something, I don’t know if it was clothes or what, in his back garden at about 5am.’ She said the neighbour later tried to sell her used make-up, which she turned down.The Met Police has refused to say whether they are hunting for the resident or if he even forms part of their investigation. A murder probe has been launched. Police experts are still trying to establish the identities and ages of the two people killed. The arrested man, 50, is being questioned at an east London police station.The last time Ms Mustafa was seen alive was with £3 on a journey to a shop in May 2018. However, when approached last night by Mail Online, her family said the police had not been in contact with them and they still have hope that she will return home. Her niece Hazel Ozulku wrote on Facebook last night: ‘There is no need to think negative at this point because we still believe she is fine and she will come home.’ Her sister Zeynep Mustafa Sukan wrote: ‘When are you coming home, sis? I miss you like you wouldn’t believe!’ A missing persons investigation was launched last year into the disappearance of Ms Mustafa, originally from Cyprus. In January, her cousin Ayse Hussain urged anyone with information to come forward.She said: ‘She’s missed her own birthday, her daughter’s birthday and now Christmas. ‘I’ve been looking after her kids now and then, and I took her daughter Christmas shopping to keep her distracted. We just say mum has gone to sort herself out and say she’ll be back soon. ‘Her daughter has just started secondary school and her son is 19.’A neighbour of the flat where the bodies were found said he heard a thud and a boom in the attic that runs above his flat a month ago. Ray Hurdord, 63, said: ‘It sounded like somebody walking around up there. It was heavy like boom, boom, boom. ‘It was a thud, it would have been too heavy for an animal, it was too loud. ‘A bit of plaster came down after somebody was walking around up there.’nother neighbour, who asked not to be named, said he know the resident of that flat only as ‘Ali’, and he was previously the boyfriend of Mary Jane Mustafa. He said: ‘I knew Mary Jane for about three months – we were friends before she went missing. ‘She used to be a pretty young girl, a peaceful young person, no hassle. Ali was going out with her for a year.’ The local resident said police told him the bodies were ‘whole, not cut up’ and police were looking at other homes in the area. Scotland Yard said they were called to the property shortly before midday on Friday by someone worried about the resident of the flat. A police spokesman said: ‘Officers subsequently gained entry and discovered two bodies dead at the scene. ‘The bodies are believed to be those of two females. We are working to carry out formal identification and trace next of kin. ‘Post-mortem examinations will be held in due course. The investigation is being led by the Homicide and Major Crime Command.’ A neighbour claimed to know the suspect, dubbing him a ‘scumbag’. ‘He used to have parties in his flat where he’d bring a lot of girls and there’s be a lot of noise,’ the neighbour said. ‘Sometimes you’d hear shouting and arguing and you’d wonder what was going on down there. ‘I last saw him last Thursday when I confronted him about taking money off a 90-year-old friend of mine. He looked worried and said to me ‘now is not a good time’. ‘There was a woman with him, who I think was his carer because he had all sorts of health problems.  Source: dailymail.co.uk