Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday vowed not to rest until it’s candidate in the February 23 National Assembly for Abia north, Senator Mao Ohuabunwa recovered what the party described as ‘stolen mandate’. The party claimed that it has overwhelming evidence to expose widespread manipulations of the result by the APC candidate, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu. The Abia north chairman of the party who conveyed the party’s renewed posture  in Abuja also appealed to governor Okezie Ikpeazu and other party chieftains in the state not to rest until justice is done . The party assured Sen. Mao Ohuabunwa of its unflinching support in his bid to recover his stolen mandate. PDP told the senator that his rival, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu of the All Progressive Congress, (APC) who stole his mandate at the polls would never get away with it. Abia North Zonal Chairman of PDP, Hon Matthew Ibe had earlier on monday led a delegation of the zonal leadership and other chieftains of the party on solidarity visit to the senator in his Arochukwu country home. He said that Abia North PDP as one united family would stop at nothing until ‘the people’s mandate given to our candidate but forcefully stolen by APC is returned’. “The former lawmaker expressed shock that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), issued certificate of return to Kalu ‘even when he was never returned nor declared winner of the Abia North senatorial contest by the Returning officer’. He urged INEC to withdraw Kalu’s certificate of return and organise re-run election in all the polling units and wards where votes were cancelled. “This is the height of impunity and rascality for a man who was never returned in an election to be issued with the certificate of return”. “Kalu only scored the highest number of votes by fraudulently allocating figures to himself but still at that, the 10,000 votes margin of win remains a far cry from the over 38,000 total number of canceled votes”. “It is only a question of time and our candidate’s stolen mandate will be  restored “, he said. The PDP zonal chairman urged other successful candidates of the party including Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu and his Deputy Ude Oko Chukwu not to abandon the senator but relentlessly sustain their support until his mandate is restored. Responding, Ohuabunwa thanked the delegation for their solidarity , expressing faith that he would get justice at the tribunal. He said the position of the law and INEC guideline on the principle of margin of win was very clear, and “unambiguously makes it illegal” for a candidate to be returned in an election if the margin of win is less than the number of canceled votes. Ohuabunwa said ‘Kalu knows that what he has is a stolen mandate which he  will soon surrender’. ” He knows the truth but only thinks he can play smart but unfortunately for him, we are resolute in reclaiming the people’s mandate”.