As Christians all over the world mark Easter today, both the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have called on Nigerians to show love and tolerance to their fellow country men and women. Apart from the two main parties, some state governors have also called on Nigerians to ensure peaceful cohabitation with their neighbour in the spirit of Easter. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that Easter is the culmination of the 40-day praying, fasting and almsgiving that characterise the Holy Month of Lent when Christians recall the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, a sacrifice he made for the salvation of mankind. While the APC urged all citizens, irrespective of religious affiliations, to imbibe selflessness in national life and in their relationship with neighbours as displayed by Jesus Christ during his earthly sojourn, the PDP , on its part, urged Nigerians to  pray for a safe and prosperous nation where love, truth and justice will prevail. The governing party, in its Easter message, further asked Nigerians to also use the occasion to pray for the safety and wellbeing of the nation’s Armed Forces and other security personnel deployed to flashpoints across the country to ensure the safety of life and property. In a statement by APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, felicitating with Christians at home and abroad on the joyous occasion of Easter, the party urged Nigerians to also remember the essence of Easter which is the recognition of the love, sacrifice and suffering Jesus Christ bore for humanity. It said: “In our collective efforts to progress as a nation, we must all rise above our perceived differences which pit brothers and sisters against themselves. Love and tolerance will take us above internecine violence, killings, agitations, and other divisive tendencies. “We seek the continuous prayers and support of Nigerians for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration in the ongoing task of taking the country to the Next Level of our shared progress, peace and prosperity.” …PDP Urges Prayers For National Rebirth On its part, the opposition PDP has called on Nigerians to use the occasion of this year’s Easter celebrations to pray for national rebirth and the fulfillment of their aspiration for a safe and prosperous nation where love, truth and justice will prevail. The party, in a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the Easter festival offers great lessons on the inevitable victory of life over death, truth over falsehood, light over darkness and freedom over captivity. “Nigerians must therefore use this occasion to rekindle their bonds of love, unity and oneness of purpose while standing firm against oppressive forces that are using intimidation, lies, institutional manipulations, propaganda and deprivation in their desperation to divide, subjugate and ultimately subvert our will as a people. “The message of Easter amply demonstrates to us that no matter how long evil, falsehood or darkness appears to thrive in the life of a people, good, truth and the light will always prevail at the end of the day. “Nigerians must therefore remain optimistic in their undying expectation and hope that the presidential mandate, which they freely gave to Atiku Abubakar, will be retrieved at the tribunal as a pathway to national rebirth and the return of our nation to the path of unity, national cohesion and economic prosperity,” it said. While wishing Nigerian Christians happy celebrations, the PDP also called on Nigerians to, in their usual brotherliness, use the occasion to show love to one another, particularly to victims of insurgency and bloodletting that have been ravaging the nation in the last four years. …Obi Seeks Prayers For Nigeria In his Easter message to Nigerians, the PDP vice presidential candidate in the last general election, Peter Obi, urged Nigerians to use this period to reflect on the situation in the country and pray specially for the survival of the country’s democracy. Obi lamented that the nation’s democracy, more than ever before since 1999, is under heavy stress, noting that all hands need to be on deck for its survival. Obi said, in a statement from his media office, that the nation’s economy is under pressure and requires the commitment and sincerity of purpose from critical stakeholders to survive. Obi challenged the nation’s leaders to stand up for the truth and and justice to save the country from deteriorating,  pointing out that no nation develops in an unjust environment. “This country has been undergoing a prolonged period of misfortune. This period of Easter provides huge opportunity for Christians to return to God in supplications for lasting solutions to our myriad challenges,” he said. The former Anambra State Governor noted that at this critical stage in the nation’s journey to development, only standing on the side of truth on the state of the nation and nothing else can set the country free from economic bondage “Indicators are apparent that the country is under siege and Nigerians should use this solemn period of Easter to pray for God to intervene and raise good leaders for the country,” he said, even as he urged Nigerians to always show good attitude to their fellow citizens. ..Show Love, Live In Peace, Oyetola Tells Nigerians The Osun State governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, has urged Nigerians to continue to live in peace and love in the spirit of Easter celebration. In his Easter message, Governor Oyetola urged the people “to take advantage of the opportunity presented by Easter to show love to fellow citizens, live in peace with neighbours and sacrifice for the betterment of the society.” According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Adeniyi Adesina, Governor Oyetola enjoined Christians to emulate the traits of humility, selflessness, tolerance and courage exemplified by Jesus Christ in his earthly mission. He said: “The lessons learnt from the Lenten season which heralded the Easter celebration should continue to radiate in the lives of Christians. “Let us continue to be hopeful as we pray for continued peace, progress and unity of the country and the advancement of the State of Osun.”  Kogi Gov Preaches Tolerance, Sacrifice Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, has urged the people of the state to embrace tolerance, sacrifice, unity and selflessness in his Easter message to Christians. According to a statement by the chief press secretary to the governor, Mr Onogwu Muhammed, the governor extended his best wishes to all citizens, especially the Christian community, on the occasion to mark the death, resurrection and ascension Christ into heaven. “I congratulate Christians on the successful completion of the Lent and Easter celebration. This period reminds everyone of the sacrifice, selflessness, tolerance and commitment of Jesus Christ. ”I call on Nigerians, especially the people of Kogi, to reflect on the lessons of Easter and the teachings of Jesus Christ. ”We place the utmost importance on the freedom in which all human beings can follow their own religion, culture, and traditions freely, regardless of their religious, cultural, or ethnic background, as our civilisation sees diversity as our treasure. ”Religious holidays are exceptional days in which the bonds of fellowship and solidarity are strengthened and the unity and sense of solidarity are reinforced,” Governor Bello said. …Awka Bishop Tasks Christians On True Repentance The Catholic Bishop of Awka Diocese, Most Rev. Paulinus Ezeokafor, has called on Christians to continue with the piety and life of repentance they adopted during the Lent after Easter and beyond. Ezeokafor gave the advice in his Easter message at St Patrick’s Cathedral Awka yesterday. He said it amounted to hypocrisy for people to assume a holy state during preparations for Easter and immediately return to their sinful ways after the celebration. According to the bishop, Easter is the greatest feast of the Church because without the resurrection of Christ, there would be no hope for Christians. “That is why in the lives of saints, they are judged on the day they die, not the day they were born. The resurrection of Christ is our hope, and without it we have nothing,” he said. … Kukah Tasks FG On Solution To Nation’s Challenges Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Most Rev. Matthew Hassan Kukah yesterday, in his Easter message to Nigerians, admonished President Muhammadu Buhari to be proactive in addressing the myriad challenges confronting the nation. Kukah asserted that always giving excuses when urgent solutions were required was counter productive, adding that the president must not give room for the speculation that his government had already been hijacked by cabals. He said: “Mr. President, Sir, the elections have come and gone, well, almost. You were declared winner, but the opposition, in exercising its right, has challenged the results. We are prayerfully hopeful that the process will be concluded so that you can hold a prize that is not seen as morally tainted.” Reminding Buhari of the reality confronting Nigerians, Kukah said, “ Looking back, I do not think that any honest citizen will dispute the fact that things have not changed for the better for our country and its citizens. Please, Sir, do not allow anyone to deceive you. “Today, our nation is sinking deeper and deeper into the abyss of despair, a melancholy and depression. No matter how we wish to pretend as a nation and a people, the evidence that all is not well stares us in the face. Our own Bureau of Statistics continues to reel out indices of human existence which show clearly that we are desperately sliding into both chaos and despondency. “International human development weighing agencies are coming to the same conclusions about the suffocating and crippling levels of misery and destitution in Nigeria. “Mr. President, it is becoming increasingly difficult, even for the most optimistic of citizens, to see beyond these clouds of frustration. The killings are even more numerous, widespread, senseless and violent than last year. Only last week, a newspaper reported that in 20 out of the 36 States, hundreds of Nigerians are being held by kidnappers in different locations with families being left to their fate. Ironically, the victims of these tragedies are your main constituents. “ They are northerners, they are Muslims and they gave you the greatest votes. Social media messages by your aides cannot make up for your physical presence as our people are grieving daily. These only serve to reinforce the feeling of distance and alienation between you and the victims of these tragedies, your children. “Mr. President, we are at breaking point. The country is at such a dangerous precarious level that it could snap anytime and anywhere. You can feel, see and touch the pulse. So, Mr. President, please step up, offer us solutions not excuses or complaints. Leadership is an exercise in problem solving. cabal, Mafia, cult or whatever, it is your call, Sir. Nigeria hangs dangerously on a precipice. You have to lead us to reclaim our country and to restore laughter and hope to our people,” Kukah said. Bishop Kukah further admonished Christians to live a Christ-like life by loving all unconditionally. Ambode, Lagos Speaker Preach Love, Tolerance Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, and the Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa have urged Nigerians, Christians in particular, to imbibe the spirit of love, sacrifice and forgiveness displayed by Jesus Christ during his lifetime. The duo, in their separate messages, emphasised the need for Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of tolerance, peaceful co-existence and sacrifice for one another, which Jesus Christ demonstrated throughout his period on earth. The governor, in his Easter message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Habib Aruna, said the celebration of the resurrection of Christ, which the season represents, should be a constant reminder for everyone to extend the virtues of selflessness, love, sacrifice and tolerance. He particularly urged Christians to use the season as a period to reflect on their individual and collective roles towards promoting and sustaining the foundation of love, peace and harmony in the nation. “We must therefore see this period as a time that presents us the viable opportunity to think about how we can help to steer our nation back on the road to peace, stability and prosperity, by working in the spirit of togetherness, because no nation can make any meaningful progress in an atmosphere riddled with pockets of violence and killings,” the governor said. In the same vein, the Lagos Assembly Speaker, in a statement issued signed by his chief press secretary, Mr. Musbau Rasak, said, “Jesus Christ was an embodiment of love throughout his life time. He preached forgiveness throughout and even displayed such on the cross. To cap it all, he eventually sacrificed his life for his people. ‘’These are essential qualities for us to imbibe and practise for us to grow as a nation and achieve greatness.” ..Gov. Dickson, Sylva Seek Peace, Unity In Bayelsa, Nigeria The governor of Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson, and his predecessor, Chief Timipre Sylva have facilitated with Christians as they celebrate this year’s Easter, urging them to embrace peace and love in order to build a more united Bayelsa and Nigeria. Governor Dickson called on Nigerians to continue to live together in love, peace and unity. In his Easter message which was signed by the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, Dickson said those were the attributes Christ lived and died with. “If we truly love ourselves, there will be no political killings, brigandage and armed banditry, as it is being experienced in some parts of the country. If there is genuine love among us, this country will be better for it,” he said. Governor Dickson used the opportunity to restate his commitment to the security of life and property as well as socio-economic development of the state, not minding the few months left in his tenure. On his part, Timipre Sylva, former governor and leader of the  opposition APC in the state, called for reflection and deeper national  emphasis on love, faith and sacrifice which are cardinal virtues in building a more united nation. In a message issued and signed his media aide, Julius Bokoru,   Sylva  said, “if Bayelsans and Nigerians reflect on Jesus’s steep walk across Golgotha, the whip lash tearing through His skin, the jeers, the cross burdensome on His shoulders and His death on the cross, we will see that, that sacrifice, only unyielding love can afford. We can, as a people, powered by love and sacrifice, build a firmer, more united nation and state.” Sylva prayed for that unwavering spirit of love and sacrifice expressed in the crucifixion of Christ. ….Fayemi Preaches Sacrifice In his Easter message, Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, stressed the need for Christians to use the season as a period to reflect on their individual and collective roles towards promoting love, peace and sacrifice which are necessary for development. The governor, in a message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, Fayemi urged the people to exhibit the spirit of love, tolerance, peaceful co-existence and sacrifice, which are the hallmark of the Easter celebration, in their daily activities. Fayemi advised the people of the state to celebrate with moderation, noting that the period is not for eating and drinking alone but to reflect on the past and hope for a better future for themselves and the state. “The greatest legacy of Jesus Christ is love, peace and sacrifice and the best way we can carry on that legacy is to play our part by living in love, peace and harmony with one another. “Our society requires more expression of love and peaceful lifestyle in order to improve the quality of life of the people. Let us show more love and let us sacrifice,” he added.