In readiness to when Nigeria will embrace the use of electric cars, Cross River Government is aligning with a Slovak firm, Sirieco, with a view to establishing electric car assembling plant in the state. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Sirieco Company Limited, Mr. Groidis Peter disclosed this when he led his team on an inspection tour of Ayade Industrial Park, in Calabar. As well as the electric car plant, the the Slovakian firm will also set up a factory for the manufacture of the latest and long lasting energy bulb in the state. Speaking to newsmen shortly after a visit to the Ayade Industrial Park, he said “after a useful deliberation with the governor and tour of some of the projects here in this industrial park, I am glad to announce to you, gentlemen,  that we will love to build a strong working relationship with the Cross River State government which will culminate in the building of a hub that will be second to none in Africa.” According to Peter,  “We are starting with Eco-Cars; electric cars and we hope to set up the car assembling plant here in this park. We are also building a factory for the manufacturing of long lasting street lambs.” Reacting to the development, Governor Ayade said: “The Ayade Industrial park has 42 plots of land ready for any serious investor who is willing to create jobs for at least 50 Cross Riverian from its investment outlay. “We are offering free land, tax exemption and providing the necessary utility support services including free Wi-Fi.” Ayade who expressed his  excitement at the visit of the business team further stated that “the team we just received has expressed its readiness with the speed of light to commence the installation of an electric car assembling plant and  in addition, set up a modern street light bulb manufacturing plant with minimum of 18watt and above for our streets using the latest technology that has a better temperature control system and 22 years life span solar systems.” Offering more insights on the new technology, the governor explained: “The new solar bulb will not suffer the deposition burden that characterizes the existing technology we currently have and that it will have no attenuation of its lighting on the basis of long use occasioned by high temperature in Nigeria. “So, all the limitations of the existing systems using solar energy have been addressed by this latest technology which is why we are excited that this is coming at this time when we are still battling to fix the energy needs of the state.” Justifying the tour of the Industrial park,  Ayade informed: “We brought them here to make a choice of a location because we are giving them free land and also guaranteeing them 3 years tax exemption. We also guarantee them that once the production line is up and running, we will purchase at least 10,000 lamb per anum which I think is enough to catalyze and energise them to commence work on site as soon as possible. “We have also offered to build on order, their factory plant at no cost to them as an incentive to ensure that they settle in properly. Once we achieve this, young Cross Riverians will gradually start having the anticipated technology transfer.” On being the first state where electric car will be assembled, Ayade said: “I’m the only digital governor in Nigeria so, it is expected. We are working ahead of time. Four years is like four days so, that is why everyday I am on the road to ensure that  by the time I leave office after eight years, I should turn back and reflect and say wow! And consistent with my history, I have never failed and won’t fail this time.  So, in less than six months construction will start.” 