Ahead of this year’s May Day celebration, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has called on state governors to immediately  commence the implementation of the N30, 000 new minimum wage. Speaking yesterday during a rally in Abuja, the leadership of the Congress also stated that workers in the country are not happy with the rate of employment in the nation. The president of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Nagim Yasim said, “We are staging this march to sensitise Nigerian workers ahead of the May Day celebration coming up on Wednesday. It is a march as part of centenary celebration of the International Labour Organisation”. “As we prepare for the May Day celebration, we urge all state governments in Nigeria to implement the new Minimum Wage of N30,000. There should be no delay from any agency of government. The new wage is long overdue. Every state government should begin payment immediately”. “This rally is also about creation of jobs too. We are not happy with the rate of employment in the nation. We have thousands of youths that are unemployed. We call on employers of labour in the private sector to complement the effort of government to ensure eradication of unemployment in the country. We also call on the Federal Government to create the enabling environment for private sector participation in job creation”. On his part, the President of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) and deputy president, NLC said governors cannot afford to delay the implementation of the new minimum wage. She said, “We want to call on Nigeria governors to ensure that they implement the new Minimum Wage. The NLC and TUC will not condone any governor that fails to implement the N30,000 Minimum Wage. They have representatives on the committee that arrived at the new Minimum Wage of N30,000″. “We will make any state that refuses to implement the new wage ungovernable for the state governor. We will use our might and strength to ensure that all state governors pay the money. We employ all workers to be part of the May Day” In his address, President of the Civil Service Union and national vice president of the NLC, Amaechi Uchechukwu said workers expected to receive the new wage by May. He said, “We expect the money to be paid by the end of May 2019. The problem we have is with the state governors because some of them will not want to pay. We have asked them to cut down on their excesses to accommodate workers welfare”. “We will occupy any state that refuses to pay at the end of May. It will be war between organised labour and any state that fails to implement it by the end of May 2019. They must pay the arrears of April and full May salaries because the new Minimum Wage was signed on April 2018 and it took effect on that day” On the part of the federal government, we do not have any problem but we are ready to engage state governments on this manner”, he concluded. EFCC Warns NUPENG Drivers Against Petroleum Products Diversion By Ejike Ejike, Abuja The acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu has warned Petroleum Tanker Drivers, of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers( NUPENG) in the Niger Delta area,  to steer clear of products diversion and collusion with illegal oil bunkerers. He gave the warning yesterday, through the Port Harcourt’s zonal head of the EFCC, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, when executives of Petroleum Tanker Drivers of NUPENG paid him a courtesy visit. According to him, tanker drivers are increasingly getting involved in illegal oil bunkering crimes through product diversions and carriage of illegal petroleum products. “Your members are being used for illegal diversion of products. Your organization is protecting criminals from being arrested and this is worrisome. Your organization, NUPENG is known for comradeship, not collusion. Right now, we have over 500 Trucks in our custody for investigation and possible prosecution on illegal oil bunkering. This is not good enough. You must desist from this practice”, he said. Magu charged the drivers to come forward with modalities of tackling illegal movements of their trucks in order to stem the tide of daily arrests. “You can come up with how to monitor movements of your trucks. You can look into tracking of your trucks. It is obvious that those illegal oil bunkerers refining illegal products are in business because they are sure that your members are available to convey the products”, he said. He also tasked the drivers to key into the whistle blowing policy of the government by offering useful information to the EFCC on the activities of drivers suspected to be fraudulent. In his response, Chairman of the Petroleum Tanker Drivers, Comrade Ezenwa Kinglsley, said that NUPENG had never supported any of its members involved in products diversion or collusion with illegal oil bunkerers. “In all our meetings, we have a policy that the union can never cover up or associate with anyone caught in any illegality.  We made billboards of culprits of product diversion. We have a task force checking any form of infraction by our members.  Once you are caught, we will bring you out,”he said.