Osun State governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday, disclosed that some bandits displaced in Zamfara State have invaded the state. Oyetola, who disclosed this at the launching of operation ‘Puff Adder’ at police command headquarters, Osogbo, noted that it is only when Osun is safe that investors can come to invest in the state. While urging the people of the state to be vigilant, he warned house owners to scrutinise whoever comes to them for house rent before granting such request because security reports at his disposal indicate that the bandits are already on ground. He assured police of adequate support to ensure that they keep the state safe, adding that the acting inspector general of police, Adamu Mohammed, applauded the last security summit organised by his administration. Speaking at the event, the state commissioner of police, Mrs Abiodun Ige, stated that Operation Puff Adder, the project of Adamu, is an exercise that stings crimes and criminality to extinction, using enhanced policing styles of effective guard and patrol; intelligence-led policing; active partnership, community policing and policing with technology. According to her, the primary role of the Nigeria Police is to provide effective internal security that is strategically crucial to the survival of democracy and the state of the economy. She contended that this realisation led to the strategic repositioning of the Force to a proactive method of crime fighting and control strategies to end all forms of violent crimes. “Operation Puff Adder is therefore, launched today as a massive enlightenment campaign on the need for policing by the body polity. The cooperation and collaboration of all stakeholders, corporate bodies and governments at all levels in bringing a permanent end to incidences of armed banditry, kidnapping and other crimes, is hereby enlisted. “The loyalty and commitment of all and sundry will pay off in the area of increased commitment and support of the government for the success of this operation to nip in the bud, criminal activities ie intelligent information on suspicious influx of suspected criminal elements and their hideouts. Credible and timely information from the public will provide drastic reduction in the crime rate. “The commendations that Osun State is one of the most peaceful states in the country in terms of crime rate is worthy of note but we need not rest on our oars in furthering crime prevention and control as a strategy to sustain the tempo with full support of all relevant stakeholders. She enjoined the people of the state to partner with them to ensure that, “we deliver jointly, in creating a secured and more conducive environment that is crucial for the realisation of IGP’s preventive and detective measures to put an end to all forms of violent crimes, as all necessary efforts will be employed professionally by the police to crack or reduce the opportunity or avenue for committing crime in our society.’’