President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday inaugurated a number of projects in Lagos State, passing a verdict that the state Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode performed satisfactorily. The president while in Lagos commissioned remodelled Murtala Mohammed International Airport Road, the world class Oshodi Transport Interchange and the 820 high and medium capacity buses for public transportation. Buhari said he was delighted to unveil the projects as they aptly reflected the drive and success of government in pursuing policies and programmes that will positively impact on its citizen. He said, “Earlier this morning, I commissioned the Ayinke House of the Institute of Maternal and Child Health and also the Lagos Theatre in Oregun. “Your Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode has performed satisfactorily and we should all commend him for his contribution to the growth and development of Lagos State.” Buhari said the coming on board of the projects had clearly demonstrated the need to continue to provide high impact projects for the development of infrastructure and opportunities for job creation at all levels, just as he said that the development was in sync with the efforts of the Federal Government to improve infrastructure especially in the transport sector. “To complement Oshodi Transport Interchange, the Federal Government has recently approved the reconstruction of the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway up to Oworonshoki and Old Toll Gate which was last attended to 40 years ago. “We have recently commissioned the new International Airport Terminals in Port Harcourt and Abuja, as well as the rail lines from Abuja to Kaduna. The Lagos to Ibadan Rail Line is under construction. Our government will continue to prioritize high impact infrastructure which will vastly improve the lives of our people,” he said. The President also seized the occasion to thank Lagosians for their support at the 2019 general election, recalling that it was his second working visit to Lagos in the last one year. In his remarks, Governor Ambode thanked the President for his direct influence and support towards the projects which made it a reality, saying that it was on record that the State has never enjoyed such measure of support from the Federal Government as it had done in the last four years. He said the Murtala Mohammed Airport Road and the U-Turn Flyover would be open for public use immediately, while the two flyovers would be open for use from May 10 after the quality assurance work is completed. 