The North East Development Commission (NEDC) is set to take off as the Senate, yesterday confirmed the nomination of General Paul Tarfa (rtd) and 10 other nominees appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari. This is as NEDC, yesterday presented a total budget of N55billion to the joint National Assembly Committee on Special Duties for approval to enable it take off. Speaking during the budget presentation at the National Assembly, the managing director and chief executive officer, Mohammed Goni Alkali said if approved, a total sum of N10 billion will be used for takeoff while N45 billion would be used for humanitarian interventions. “In the 2019 federal government budget, the commission was allocated a sum of N55.00 billion. N10 billion for take off and N45 billion for humanitarian and developmental interventions in the region,” he said. The commission members included the office of the chairman of the commission and the managing director/chief executive officer. The commission which is situated in Maiduguri, Borno State capital has Major General Tarfa Paul (rtd) as chairman, Mohammed  Goni Alkali as MD/CEO, Musa Umar Yashi, executive director, Humanitarian Affairs and Muhammed Jawa as executive director, Administration and Finance. Others are Omar Maiwada Mohammed executive director Operations, David Sabo Kente representing North East, Asmau Mai- Eka Muhammed, North West, Hon Benjamin Tilley Adanyi, North Central, Hon. Olawale Oshun, South West, Dr. Theodore E.O. Ekechi, South East and Mr. Obasuke McDonald, South South. The appointments were confirmed by the Senate yesterday following the consideration of the report of the  Senate Committee on Special Duties that was presented by its chairman, Sen. Abdul Aziz Nyako. The confirmation did not go smoothly as some senators expressed concern why the commission is situated in Borno State with the chief executive officer coming from the same state. Sen Binta Masi Garba (APC Adamawa North) said she observed that the commission is domiciled in Borno State and the CEO is from the same Borno State, contrary to what happened with the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). But Senator Abdulaziz Murtala Nyako (Adamawa South) said while Binta’s observation was valid, the Senators were overwhelmed during the public hearing by their counterpart in the House of Representatives. In his contribution, the deputy leader, Bala Ibn Na’Allah (Kebbi South) said the observations are valid within the context but that certain peculiarities should be considered adding that the choice of Mohammed Goni Alkali as the CEO of the North East Development Commission will help in quick responses. The leader of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan said the people nominated are eminently qualified with wealth of experience and urged the committee to monitor the take off of the commission. The Deputy Senate president, Ike Ekweremadu said the commission is a product of the ingenuity and hard work of the 8th assembly adding that it was not the first time the National Assembly took such action citing NDDC as an example.