Six months after the traditional ruler, the Agom Adara chiefdom in the crisis-torn Kajuru local government area of Kaduna State, Dr. Maiwada Galadima, was abducted and killed by criminals, operatives of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) have arrested the prime suspect and 17 others in connection with the sad incident and similar offences. The suspect, Abubakar Ibrahim, 37, was nabbed by men of the recently launched “Operation Puff Adder” to flush out bandits, kidnappers and other criminals from the North West, North East and other parts of the country. The late Galadima was abducted on October 18, 2018 and was killed a week later by his abductors after collecting a N10million ransom. The gunmen killed his police orderly on the spot and took away the monarch’s wife and his driver who were later freed. The kidnappers had allegedly stopped the traditional ruler’s vehicle at the military checkpoint at Idon on the Kaduna-Abuja Highway and shot his police orderly. Ibrahim’s arrest was linked by the police to the unmasking and detention of a “spiritual father” of kidnappers and armed bandits operating in the northern part of the country, Mallam Salisu Abubakar. Force public relations officer, Mr. Frank Mba, who disclosed the arrest of Ibrahim and his colleagues yesterday said that “police detectives attached to ‘Operation Puff Adder’, through a series of detailed, intensive and sustained investigative operations successfully arrested 18 more notorious kidnappers and armed robbers at different times and places across the country. A total of 22 AK 47 rifles, five locally- fabricated pistols and a cache of live ammunition was recovered from the bandits.” Mba explained that “the combined team of crack detectives from Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Tactical Intelligence Unit (TIU), and other operatives using actionable intelligence obtained from the spiritual godfather of the kidnappers and other multiple sources, tactically ‘smoked out’ the kidnappers and armed bandits from their hideouts in Birnin Gwari, Rijana, Katari, Mai Daro and Buruku Forests in Kaduna State before they were eventually arrested at different locations and times in Kaduna, Katsina, Niger and Kogi States respectively. “Meanwhile, police investigations have positively linked the arrested suspects to some of the most heinous crimes committed in Kaduna State and its environs in recent times. Specifically, Abubakar Ibrahim alias Dan Habu, aged 37 years and a native of Kabam in Igabi local government area of Kaduna State, who was arrested on 15th April, 2019 at Rigachikun in Igabi local government area of Kaduna State confessed to the kidnapping and gruesome murder of His Royal Highness (HRH) King Agom Adara of Kajuru local government area and many other kidnappings and murders. Similarly, the arrested gang members were also indicted by investigations for the kidnap and murder of Mallam Yakubu Usman, 40-year-old male of Jere local government area, Kaduna State and many other crimes,” Mba said. According to him, all the 18 male suspects are in police custody assisting the officers in the on-going investigations into various crimes in Kaduna and other states in the North West and North Central Zones. The suspects, according to him are Abubakar Ibrahim alias Dan Habu, 37, a native of Igabi local government area of Kaduna State; Johnson Okafor, 44, a native of Anambra State and resident of Suleja local government area of Niger State; Shaibu Iliyasu alias Smally, 20, a native of Rijiana, Kaduna Road, Abuja; Ishaik Dabo alias Keke, 38, a native of Maraban Jos, Igabi LGA of Kaduna State; Mohammed Nasiru, 25, a native of Manunfashi LGA of Katsina State; Aminu Haruna, 25, a native of Galadimawa Village in Giwa LGA of Kaduna State; Shafiu Alhaji Gudau, 25, a native of Sabuwa LGA of Katsina State; Auwalu Hamisu, 24, a native of Tashan Fulani village in Malumfashi LGA of Katsina State; Ado Ya’u, 35, a native of Rigoji Village in Kafur LGA of Katsina State; Ibrahim Yusuf, 30, a native of Kujama Village of Kaduna State; Ibrahim Audu, 22, a native of Kujama Village, Kaduna State; Salisu Ajah, 50, a native of Galadimawa Village, Giwa LGA of Kaduna State and Nasiru Umaru, 25, a native of Malumfashi LGA of Katsina State. Others are Magaji Abubakar, 27, native of Kujama Village, Kaduna State; Salisu Ali, 18, native of Kujama Village, Kaduna State; Lawal Shadari, 22, native of Rijiana Village, Kaduna State; Junaidu Lawal, 18, native of Rijiana Village, Kaduna State, and Usman Musa, 43, native of Rijiana Village, Kaduna State. Mba continued: “Although, the suspects belong to different loose, fairly independent but vicious criminal gangs, their operations are centrally coordinated by their spiritual godfather Mallam Salisu Abubakar. Efforts are currently being intensified to arrest the other gang members still at large, and recover all weapons in the gangs’ armoury.” He commended his men for the arrest of the prime suspect in Galadima’s murder and many other feats, adding that the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu has reassured the country that the Nigeria police working in concert with other security agencies will not rest on its oars until kidnappings and other violent crimes are subdued, and sanity restored to the land.  …Debunk Fresh Crisis In Sabon Tasha, Kaduna Meanwhile, the Kaduna State police command has dispelled the rumours of the outbreak of fresh violence in Sabon Tasha and Mararraban Rido areas of Kaduna metropolis. The command’s public relations officer, Mr. Yakubu Sabo, described the information as “callous and mischievous.” He said that “the information was intentionally fabricated by some misguided persons to create panic and disharmony among the good citizens of the state in order to destabilise the existing peaceful atmosphere being enjoyed in the state.” Sabo explained that an incident occurred when a person was suspected to have attempted to steal a pair of shoes in a shop at Sabo Market and was sighted, noting that while the suspected thief was being pursued by good Samaritans, the people in the neighbourhood started running haphazardly thinking that it was a crisis. Sabo said that the situation caused pandemonium and rumours spread immediately within the town and beyond. The commissioner of police, Mr. Ahmad Abdur-Rahman, also dispelled the rumours of ethnic and religious coloration in the incident and has directed the security operatives to intensify the patrol of the state to forestall any possible break down of law and order in the state.  Bandits, Kidnappers Sack 2 Niger Villages, Neighbouring Communities For villagers in Kontonkoro in Mariga local government area of Niger State, bandits have made life unbearable thereby forcing them to abandon their ancestral homes. The bandits are believed to have invaded the Niger communities from the neighbouring Zamfara State and Birnin Gwari in Kaduna State. LEADERSHIP findings revealed that the bandits had so far sacked Galma village twice within 24 hours at the weekend and looted the resident’s property as well as abducted some women. It was also learnt that the criminals rustled cows and sheep in the village, before they moved to Wamba village prompting the villagers to flee to Bangi, the local government headquarters for safety. Sources said that it was easier for the bandits to get to that part of Niger State because they share boundaries with the bandit-ravaged areas of Zamfara State as well as Randagi and Kakangi districts of Birni Gwari in Kaduna State. The bandits were said to have struck thrice in the Birni Gwari axis but were repel by the military and vigilantes, who force them to relocate to Wamba, Kontonkoro and Galma communities in Niger State and Bena in Kebbi State. Already, contractors handling some government projects in the area, have abandoned work for fear of becoming targets of the bandits. The Niger State police command public relations officer, Abubakar Dan Inna, confirmed that the villagers were not moving out because of the bandits but were apprehensive of the police and vigilante’s combined operations in the area. Inna added that police took proactive measures to jointly operate with the vigilantes in the area to stop the bandits from entering the state through the communities as they share boundaries with both Zamfara and Birni Gwari in Kaduna States.  2 Abducted Chinese Regain Freedom In Ebonyi Reprieve has come for the two Chinese nationals, Sun Zhixin and Wang Quing Hu, who were abducted by gunmen in Uburu in Ohaozara local government area of Ebonyi State as they have regained their freedom after four days in captivity. A police source told LEADERSHIP that the Chinese who were abducted by the masked gunmen last Friday were rescued by the special anti-kidnapping squad of the state police command. The source disclosed that immediately the incident was reported, the state police commissioner, Mr. Awosola Awotinde, gave marching orders to the police to rescue the victims and arrest the abductors. He said that men of the anti-kidnapping squad swung into action and safely rescued the Chinese and declined to comment on whether ransom was paid. The Chinese were working on a road project in Ohaozara council when they were forcefully taken away by gunmen who struck at their construction site at 3:30 pm Wednesday last week by the gunmen. The command’s police public relations officer, Loveth Odah, who confirmed the rescue of the victims yesterday, said that the victims were rescued by the policemen who mounted intensive hunt for the kidnappers. According to her, “their abductors were forced to abandon them in a thick forest near the location where they were kidnapped following pressure mounted on them by the police who were closing in on their location. “They were rescued on Saturday by 11am. The pressure was so much on the kidnappers that they had to abandon them and flee. They were rescued in a thick forest around the area unhurt. They were not physically tortured but they may be traumatised,” Odah said. She called on foreigners in the state to always partner with the police and other security agencies so that they can be adequately protected. “The police in the state has invited the foreign nationals to a meeting to sensitise them on the need to liaise with the police to always provide them with adequate security,” she added.ation,” he declared.