Governors under the umbrella of Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) have raised the alarm over the possibility of another cycle of recession by mid 2020 which, they said, may last up to the third quarter of 2021. This is even as they stated that borrowing is not a reliable avenue to solve the country’s economic problems. Zamfara State governor and NGF chairman, Abdulaziz Yari, made these comments yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, during an induction programme organised by the NGF for new and returning governors. The NGF chairman  called on his colleagues to work hard to multiply their revenue generation streams “so that, together, we change the course of doing government business for the betterment of our people”. According to him, for most of the states, the internally generated revenue  (IGR) is very small, so they must look inwards by boosting their revenue generation bases and also utilising the funds to effectively execute projects that would touch the lives of the people. He, however, pointed out that even though many  states had fared well by executing developmental projects, there is still the need for states to work harder to boost their IGR. Yari said if the federal and state governments are to put the economy on the right track and insulate it from frequent crisis stemming from absolute reliance on oil, they must look seriously into the need to diversify the economy by investing enormous resources in agriculture and mining. He also stressed the  need to slam high import tariff on agricultural products such as maize and wheat in order to boost their local production and provide raw materials for local industries. From records, the NGF chairman noted that government spends about two trillion naira on oil development yearly, adding that if one third of the amount is dedicated to agriculture and mining, the state of the economy would have been different by now. He further stated that  there  is no better time for the federal government to pay more serious attention to the issue of diversification than now when the world is moving away from carbon fuel to biofuel and electric vehicles. He said, “However, by the mid-2014, the price of crude oil, which is sadly the main driving force of government’s expenditure, dropped to $75 per barrel. It, therefore, became very difficult for many states to even pay salaries of their workers. “This scenario is a wake-up call for all of you to come amply prepared to face these kinds of challenges especially since we are expecting the possibility of another cycle of recession by the mid-2020 and which may last up to the third quarter of 2021. “In so doing, key revenue agencies like NNPC, FIRS, NCS and other sister agencies must be made to work more, especially now that Mr President has signed the much awaited national minimum wage law, pegging the minmimun workers’ salaries at N30,000 per month.” He also stated that despite the fact of Nigeria’s 59 years of independence, “we only have a 20-year history of uninterrupted democratic experience. Nigeria still has a relatively nascent democracy that requires more nourishment and gradual process to develop.” Yari advocated that political leaders be supported to act within their powers, rather than being pushed to run faster than their feet could carry them. He also called on the federal government to revisit its approach to fighting corruption, saying there is need for proactiveness in the quest. “We must fight all incentives to corruption by waging the war through a bottom-up approach. Attention should equally be focused on all strata of the society if we are to win the war against this scourge,” he said