A support group, the Senator Ahmed Lawan Media Support Group (SALMSG) has taken a swipe at the leadership of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) over the rejection of the choice of Senator Ahmed Lawan as president of the ninth Senate, describing it as desperate antics by agents of those that have lost out in politics. The support group in a statement made in response to the AYCF claims over the choice of Lawan signed by Abdul Abuh and made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja, said they have been foretold of plots to sponsor political jobbers in the garb of youth associations to disparage the person of Lawan and to also berate the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on its decision to endorse him as President of the ninth Senate. Abuh said that the choice of Lawan as president of the ninth Senate is beyond the decision of a single individual leader of the APC. He explained that contrary to claims by Shettima, as at the last count various levels of the party have expressed support to the candidature of Lawan including the National Working Committee, the Presidency, majority of APC senators-elect and governors of the party. Abuh added that these are the critical stakeholders of the party and they reserve the right to intervene in affairs of their party. The statement reads in part: ‘’AYCF should also be aware that aside his endorsement by the party, Senator Lawan has been actively engaging all senators-elect across party lines with the view of securing popular support. ‘’At the moment, he has succeeded in garnering the support of majority of senators elect. This may not go down well with the Shettima’s of this world and their ilk but that’s the reality. ‘’The question should have been, is Lawan qualified for the position and the answer would be an emphatic YES. We challenge Shettima to controvert the fact that Lawan remains the most experienced of all the other aspirants for the position, including his paymasters. ‘’We challenge him to controvert the fact that Lawan is by academic standing higher than his paymaster and above all, Shettima should tell the world how and why it must be his paymaster and not Senator Lawan. We also challenge Shettima’s paymaster to address a press conference where 10 other APC senators are in attendance.’’