Captain of industries, political leaders, policymakers, business magnates and institutional investors from all walks of life will be in attendance at the Euro Knowledge Leadership Award Ceremony which comes up on April 29, 2019 at the House of Lords, London. Among those mentioned by the organisers to attend the award include the Innovate 1 Pay Founder and Chairman, Mahmood Ahmadu and the co-founder/CEO, Anthony Nwachukwu. Innovate 1 Pay is the largest provider of payment services in Nigeria with millions of client transactions/payments processed in Nigeria and globally on its platform. Since its incorporation in 2013, Innovate 1 has continued to grow in its geographic reach and business operations, both within Nigeria and internationally through partnerships in growth markets and targeted areas. Innovate 1 Pay is at the forefront of the use of technology in the delivery of financial services in Africa and globally. Innovate 1’s founder and Chairman, Mahmood Ahmadu sets the strategic direction of the company, while co-founder and CEO Anthony Nwachukwu implements the vision with an outstanding team of Managers and Technology staff. Innovate 1 Pay brings together a diverse and experienced group to deliver world class service ,  Vision for the future According to a 2017 World Bank estimate, 1.7 billion people have no bank account, and it is their  vision at Innovate 1 to bridge that gap, by providing virtual banking for this demographic. Other prominent individuals expected to attend the event are the founder of Aiteo, Mr Benedict Peters, Chairman of Channels Television, Mr John Momoh, former Minister of Trade and Investment, Mrs Onikepo Akande and the Chairman, Africa Prudential Plc, Mrs Eniola Fadayomi. Mr Peters has ventured into the oil and gas sector as an entrepreneur in 1999 and initially traded mainly in the downstream sector. In 2015, his company, Aiteo won the bid for the largest onshore oil block in sub-Saharan Africa. Beyond oil, Peter’s group has investments in mining, agriculture, infrastructure development, electricity generation and distribution, with a fast-developing retail distribution network. The event will also be graced by a prominent business tycoon and CEO at The Royal office of Sheikh Tahnoon bin Saeed bin Tahnoon Al Nahyan, Zulfiquar Ghadiyali. Ghadiyali is well known in the construction & Steel manufacturing sector, and has involved in major business’s and strategic management of investment projects across Asia, MENA, a region in the field of Real Estate, hospitality, General Trading, mining, Fin tech, AI and AR based tech projects. Others from the African continent include; Festus Mogae, former President of Botswana, Dr.Ernest Kwamina Yedu Addison (Central Bank Governor, Ghana). The Awards which seeks to acknowledge and celebrate exemplary leaders who have made signiﬁcant contributions and positive impacts in their speciﬁc fields as role models, tech giants, innovators, community and inspirational leaders. According to the organisers of the event, call for entries has commenced in 15 categories comprising; Industry Leadership Award, Leading Corporate Social Responsibility, Leading Airline, Leading IT award, Leading Oil and Gas Company in Africa, Lifetime Leadership Achievement Award, Business Leader of the Year, Emerging Leader of the year, Leading CEO of the Year, Women Leadership Award, Leading Public Service Award, Outstanding Investors Award, Good Governance Award, Leading Bankers Award and Politician of Excellence Award. “The Ceremony will begin with a tour of the House of Lords, then a Forum on Trade, Investment and governance, to be followed by a networking reception that will usher the participants to dinner with entertainment during the presentation of the awards.” Accordingly, Nick Kochan is expected to deliver the keynote address.