The federal government has said it would intensify efforts in the provision of basic infrastructure such as roads, power generation, rail lines and water in order to create an enabling environment for manufacturing and other businesses in the country. Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, in a chat with media men in Lagos, explained that these basic infrastructures were meant to ease time and cost of access to raw materials, finished goods and ensure wider market for the sale of manufactured products. He said that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government was keen to improve infrastructure capacity in the country in line with its ease of doing business agenda and also to boost trade facilitation in key sectors of the economy. The minister noted that the federal government’s focus on previously comatose road projects on major arterial routes like the Enugu-Port Harcourt Highway, Apapa-Oworonshoki Highway, Lagos-Ibadan Highway, Kano-Maiduguri Highway, Lokoja-Benin Highway and Kaduna Eastern By pass was not accidental; adding that it was targeted at increasing manufacturing capacity and national productivity. According to him, such projects were now making steady progress towards early completion, saying that on completion, it would galvanise rapid economic growth for the country. Speaking on the government’s Executive Order 007, Fashola explained that the administration realised that using public funds were not adequate to provide the desired level of infrastructure due to other competitive demands on public resources, so policies had been put in place to encourage the private sector to partner with the federal government in the provision of these critical infrastructures. He said, “In this regard, the Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government in a bid to create an enabling environment for manufacturing and other businesses has intensified activities in the provision of basic infrastructure such as roads, power generation, rail lines and water. Improved transport infrastructure is expected to improve the time and cost of access to raw materials/finished goods and ensure wider market for the sale of manufactured products.” He however, said being aware that public funds were not adequate to provide the desired level of infrastructure due to other competitive demands on public resources, policies have been put in place to encourage the private sector to partner with the federal government in the provision of these critical infrastructures. LCCI Seeks Fiscal, Monetary Authorities In Addressing Challenges Facing Investment Risks By OLUSHOLA BELLO, Lagos Following the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s reduction of the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has disclosed it was time for the fiscal and monetary authorities to address the challenge of investment risk across all sectors of the economy to boost flow of credit to the private sector. Director-general of the LCCI, Muda Yusuf, who stated this while commenting on the CBN’s MPC communiqué in Lagos, explained that the federal government and the CBN need to work collaboratively to moderate investment risk in the economy to boost the flow of credit to the private sector, boost investment growth and create jobs. He said that the LCCI welcomed the decision by the apex bank to reduce the MPR by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent. According to him, this was in consonance with the clamour by the private sector for a relaxation of the tight monetary policy regime in the light of weak consumer demand, fragile economic growth and high rate of unemployment. However, the DG of LCCI affirmed that the MPR reduction would not have a materially significant impact on the ailing economy, but it has a symbolic and signalling value that the CBN is already having a paradigm shift in its policy from stability to growth. According to Yusuf,  the reality was that the economy was currently characterised by fragile growth at 2.3 per cent, unemployment at 23.1 per cent and youth unemployment at 36.5 per cent, high dependence on crude oil export, weak diversification and high poverty incidence. With these prevailing economic challenges, Yusuf noted that the economy needs both monetary and fiscal stimulus at a period to galvanise it from its ailing condition. He stated that “The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomes the decision by the CBN to reduce the MPR by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent. This is in consonance with the clamour by the private sector for a relaxation of the tight monetary policy regime in the light of weak consumer demand, fragile economic growth and high rate of unemployment. We acknowledge that this reduction is not materially significant, but it has a symbolic and signalling value.” He emphasised that the economy needs both monetary and fiscal stimulus at a time like this, saying that “We request that the challenge of investment risk across all sectors of the economy be addressed.” He noted that the fiscal and monetary authorities need to work collaboratively to moderate investment risk in the economy, adding that this was very critical to boost the flow of credit to the private sector, boost investment growth and create jobs.