Twenty-four states of the federation have failed to remit the pension contributions of workers under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) with most of them still battling with a backlog of pension arrears. While some of the concerned states have no form of pension plan for their workers, LEADERSHIP learnt that others were still operating the old pension scheme known as Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS). Even the few of the CPS-compliant states have stopped their monthly pension remittances when they had financial challenges. To this end, the affected states have contravened the Pension Reforms Act (PRA) 2014, which requires that employees should remit eight per cent of their monthly salaries as monthly pension contributions, while their employers add 10 per cent, thereby, making 18 per cent joint monthly pension contributions that are expected to be remitted into the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of the workers, not later than a week after their salaries have been paid. A document sourced from the National Pension Commission (PenCom) by LEADERSHIP listed the defaulting states as at March 31, 2019 as Katsina, Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba, Yobe, Benue, Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa, Niger and Plateau States. The others are Ogun, Oyo, Abia, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo, Akw-Ibom, Bayelsa and Cross River States. In the case of Niger State, investigation showed that it stopped the CPS implementation since April 2015 and pension remittances into the RSAs of its workers while Ogun State has joined the train, leading to huge arrears of unremitted pensions. Kano State, on the other hand, deducts pension contributions but keeps them under the management of a Board of Trustees (BoT), which has not transferred the pension assets to any licensed Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) This, however, leaves just 13 states remitting pension contributions of their respective workers, even though, a few of the states were only remitting the eight per cent employees’ contribution, while failing to remit their 10 per cent contributions, thereby, shortchanging the workers. The erring states are Kaduna, Kebbi, Jigawa, Ekiti, Lagos, Ondo, Osun, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Delta, Edo and Rivers States From the document, Kebbi State is the only state remitting the employees’ portion; Ondo State only remits for civil servants employed from September 2014, while Osun State is inconsistent with its remittances. Anambra State has only remitted the employer and employee pension contributions for local government employees up to March 2018. The state (Anambra) also remitted the employer’s portion of pension contributions for state employees up to December 2016, and remitted employees’ portion for state employees up to February 2019. The inability of most states to remit the pensions of workers and the huge arrears of some states, according to experts, leaves the incoming governors with a lot of work to do to correct this anomaly. The acting director-general, PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, had raised concerns over the series of reports of non-remittance of monthly pensions by some states and the inability of some state governments to join the new pension scheme. She had urged the states that are yet to join the CPS to speed up the process of domesticating the PRA 2014 in their respective state laws for easy transition to the new scheme. She said that the commission was aware that some employers, which also include states, having withdrawn the employees’ contribution from their respective salaries, fail to remit same into their RSAs, thereby shortchanging the workers. The PenCom boss warned the defaulting employers to desist from the act and begin to remit their workers’ pensions as and when due. On her part, the president, Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOP), Mrs. Aderonke Adedeji, who is also the managing director, Leadway Pensure PFA Limited, said: “As a matter of fact, the law says that seven days after salaries are paid, deduction from employees’ salaries and employers should be remitted. So, when you have a situation where an employer is not making such remittances for two, three, four months and above, we go there to ask why they are not remitting. “But when we find a situation where employers seem to be nonchalant and things like that, we inform the regulator and recovery agents to go to such employers to do all that is necessary to recover the debts.” The director, Centre for Pension Right Advocacy (CPRA), Mr. Ivor Takor, charged the unions in the public sector to rise to the plight of the state workers by compelling the defaulting state governments to remit the monthly pension contributions of their workers promptly. While fighting for salary increment, he said that  the pension and insurance packages of workers should also be utmost.