With a resurgence of measles in at least nine countries in Africa, stakeholders have underscore the need for increased investments in immunization as a fundamental part of strengthening primary health care system. Regional Director for Africa, World Health Organization (WHO), Dr Matshidiso Moeti, said the global measles crisis is an urgent wake-up call to the need for countries to ensure that all children, no matter where they live, receive life-saving vaccines. Countries in the African Region have also experienced a resurgence of measles, including outbreaks reported in countries like Chad, Cameroon, DR Congo, Liberia, Guinea, Madagascar, Mali, Nigeria and Uganda in the last 12 months, says Moeti, adding that Madagascar, in particular, has had a large measles outbreak affecting more than 122,000 cases in the months between October 2018 and April 2019. She said every year, more than 30 million children younger than 5 years in Africa fall sick due to vaccine-preventable diseases and of them, more than half a million die, representing 56 per cent of the global deaths related to vaccine-preventable diseases. “In Africa, vaccine-preventable diseases also impose an economic burden of $13 billion every year, funding that could be used to fuel economies and drive development. A highly contagious disease that accounts for 13 per cent of all vaccine-preventable deaths in children younger than 5 years in Africa, measles infects nine in ten people who are not vaccinated. “As of 2017, only 16 countries in the African Region had achieved 90 per cent or more immunization coverage of the first dose of measles vaccine (MCV1), according to the WHO and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) coverage estimates. Across the region, MCV1 coverage has stagnated, at 70 – 73 per cent since 2009,” she added. She said, “We need to work together to improve immunization delivery so that all children are protected from preventable diseases. Recent disease outbreaks on the continent remind us of the urgency of this goal. “Everyone has a role to play in ensuring that children and communities get the immunization services they need, from politicians and community advocates to health practitioners and parents themselves. “I hope African Vaccination Week will encourage each of us to do our part and that these collective efforts will drive progress across the region,” said His Excellency Mr Evaristo do Espirito Santo Carvalho, President of São Tomé and Príncipe.