Sankyai Obadiah, proprietor of City College of Health Science and Technology, Zaria, Kaduna State,on Tuesday appeared in a Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly running an illegal institution. It was gathered that the complainants, Hunaifa Musa, Yahaya Musa and Francis Luka, who are students of the college, dragged Obadiah ti court over alleged non accreditation of the institution. In his submission, counsel to the complainants, Hussaini Abdu, said they were in court to challenge the legality of operations of the college. He said the college had neither government approval nor accreditation by regulatory bodies saddled with the responsibility of approving the health courses before admiring students. Abdu said they filed a direct criminal complaint at the court, adding that the school’s action was a criminal conspiracy and cheating which contravened the law. Obadiah pleaded not guilty to the charge. Defence Counsel, Yusuf Sambo, therefore, prayed the court to allow his client enjoy the bail conditions granted by the court on Jan. 30, Chief Magistrate Abdullahi Maigamo, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties, who must be senior civil servants or two district heads or someone with landed property in Zaria. Maigamo fixed May 2, for hearing. Speaking to newsmen, counsel to the complainants, Abdu alleged that the college was operating illegally. “During investigation, we found out that the college had no accreditation of the courses it was running. “The complainants believed that the proprietor of the college is just deceiving the students. ”What is the use of spending money and at the end, they will not graduate. This has caused my clients psychological trauma,” Abdu noted. The defence counsel, Sambo,  said: “we are appearing in this case in the interest of justice and to protect the interest of Zaria and Zazzau emirate. “This institution is really assisting the people of the area, especially the women because we don’t have such colleges here. “I want to assure you  that this institution has accreditation.” (NAN)