The Senator-elect for Kaduna Central senatorial zone, Malam Uba Sani, has urged Nigerians to use the Easter season to mend political fences, saying, elections are over. Uba Sani, in his Easter message while congratulating all Nigerians, in particular, the Christian community urged deep reflection on the values that bind Nigeria together. The statement said the last elections were hard fought and pitched family members, friends, associates and Nigerians generally against each other but there is always a time to sheathe the political sword. Senator Uba Sani reminded all Nigerian federating components to see the Easter as a season of joy as well sober appreciation of the solid bond of brotherhood that unites humanity under a merciful God. He said the Easter which is marked in remembrance and celebration of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ is a very important and hugely significant event. The statement reads: “The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ is the pillar on which the Christian faith stands. Jesus Christ gave his life as a sacrifice for the remission of sins. His sacrifice signifies undiluted love, selflessness, forgiveness and compassion,” the Senator-elect said. The occasion of Easter, he said, offers an opportunity to genuinely reflect on the challenges facing the country: “Elections are over and we must face governance squarely. If we close ranks and cooperate fully with relevant authorities, our country’s challenges would be addressed frontally,” he said. Senator Sani said Easter is also a time to renew commitment for the search of peace, show genuine love and compassion to fellow countrymen and women: “Regardless of our religious persuasions and ethnic affiliations, we are one people. Our diversity is our strength. We must harness our strengths to make our country great,” he said. Uba Sani added: “the last elections were hard fought and pitched family members, friends, associates and Nigerians generally against each other. But there is always a time to sheathe the political sword. Let the spirit of Easter touch the nation and bring forgiveness, love and peace” “May this Easter bring the good people of Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone abundance of peace, joy and happiness. Be rest assured of my total commitment to the repositioning and progress of our Senatorial District,” he said.