“Malaria” is a common word in Nigeria. Easily rolls of the tongue. One would conclude this word has to be associated with something powerful or connote something good, with the way the word comes freely, even to children below five years. 100% of people born and inhabitant in Nigeria have come in contact with this disease or simply know someone who has. Let’s learn a little bit about this disease then, shall we? Malaria is one of the most severe global public health problems worldwide, particularly in Africa, where it accounts for more cases and deaths in Nigeria than any other country in the world. There are an estimated 100 million malaria cases with over 300,000 deaths per year in the country, with the most vulnerable being nursing mothers and young children. In order to find long-term solution to this highly endemic health challenge, many organisations like UNICEF, WHO, PPFN and others have conducted researches and developed intervention strategies to curb the disease, including the Roll Back Malaria project that was initiated in Africa in the year 2000. Why then does the impact of this disease seem to be on the rise, year after year? Here’s the simple answer: Environmental Hygiene It is common knowledge that malaria thrives in the worst of environmental conditions. To prevent malaria in a country such as Nigeria with its vast population, the prior thing to consider is the living condition of the people, particularly the poor and under-privileged. The reality is that in the poorest, rural areas, this is where malaria has its highest toll. Karon-majigi comes under this category of communities that are vulnerable to malaria, a place that is home to low income earners and the internally displaced and landmarked by heaps of 1refuse dump, rusted zinc houses and poor drainage system, children living in this community die from malaria in high numbers every year, while the lives of others are threatened daily. ARO Foundation is one organisation passionate about the wellbeing of the residents of our one home – Earth. They exhibit this passion through programs designed to meet under privileged people in Nigeria at the point of their varying needs. In their efforts to ensure innovative ways to deal with the malaria crisis are developed and implemented in targeted areas prone to the disease, the ARO Foundation visited Angwanguragu, one of the communities in Karon-majigi, to listen to the resident’s challenges with the disease. The ARO members of the ARO Foundation Team met with the women leader of the community along with members and heard the stories of major families. They pointed out that the refuse dumps and poor drainage are the major causes of illness in their community. Children, no matter how hard one scolds them, still find their way to the refuse heap to play among the rubbish, thus exposing them to all sorts of bacteria. Centering on these issues raised during the Foundation’s visit to Angwanguragu, it is imperative that the Nigerian government intensify its efforts in curbing malaria by focusing on improving the environmental state of communities like Karon-majigi. With better living conditions, malaria will thrive a lot less in Nigeria.