In this interview, with CHIBUZO UKAIBE, national chairman of the Africa Democratic Congress (ADC), Chief Ralph Okey Nwosu, speaks on some critical national issues The elections have come and gone, even though  the dust is yet to settle. From the benefit of hindsight as a critical player in this election, how do you assess the exercise? The elections have come but it is not over. So it may be wrong to say it is come and gone. It is not over because what happened was not an election. We will be fooling ourselves if we feel our democracy should degenerate instead of moving forward. I like to put things in context and I am doing so for the purpose of clarity so that people will see why people like me and other patriots in this country should be very worried. By 1999, there was a change of government. Obasanjo who was in detention and almost going to be killed; who had handed over in 1979, found himself again being handed over to after 20 years. So he could take some actions that you may possibly forgive. He has seen it all. At some point, he saw the civilian government that was given to him to midwife being crumbled and he decided,for instance, to take some drastic action which included retiring some top military brass and later after some investigation it was discovered that there were some people who had had dealings with different military regimes as civilian governors and people who worked for the core military politicians. Then he was able to hold on to the democratic jewel that was in his hand to move from one constitutional term to another and reflecting back, this is the time that we had major challenges. So you can see some very hard knocks, which some people questioned then , ‘is this democracy?’ But when you look at it, and think back you can say yes, this is the time every other government had collapsed. I can quit to make sure that this one doesn’t collapse in my hands. So we were able to move from one tenure to another tenure and then at the end of the tenure, we were able to also transit from one person to another person. So we have developed. What didn’t happen since our independence suddenly happened and our democracy started to take root by some of his actions. We can say that some of his actions were draconian but at least we were deepening our democracy. The third one that happened was Obasanjo handing over to Late President Umoru Musa Yaradua. That was possible because of a new culture of some sort that was developing. We were able to keep the military away even when we had the challenge of Yar’Adua’s illness. Something was being built like never before. We were able to deal with that situation. Yar’Adua’s era passed and we still had a democracy that was not challenged. After a brief one year that Jonathan finished the tenure of Yar’ Adua, election was conduct and a southern minority from the oil rich Niger Delta was able to have the honour from all Nigerians to be president. These are the things that heal as landmark events to cement our unity as a country as well as deepen and strengthen our democracy and our nationhood. Then this simple man from the minority who the democratic system threw up and he became president conducted election, the heat was too much and he was voted out. He took our democracy to the next level by taking his phone to call the opposition candidate and say congratulation. You can imagine the strength that gave to our democracy and the window it created for our nation across the world. Unfortunately; that is why I want you to understand my pain over what has happened in the current election, that the Nigerian nature and the culture that we were beginning to build; that was beginning to emerge has suffered. Once APC took over, they were not able to see the inclusive nation; the real Nigerian nation and the system that was emerging. Unfortunately they took over and became vengeful. And once any leadership becomes vengeful then we are going down. But people like Obasanjo that you have mentioned were accused of not institutionalising the democratic processes because they did not do enough to strengthen our institutions? You see that is why I say we need to contextualise issues. All the leaders operated at different times. So they all should have different burdens. Maybe, if you put Obasanjo here now and ask him why he did some things he did or what was on his mind when you did them, he will tell you, ‘I retired some military officers, maybe not the time they were supposed to be retired, but my burning desire was to protect our democracy and not anything personal. ‘ That for me is being patriotic. We had not gone from one tenure to the other, so it is not anything personal. Leaders lead under some context, so it is not about blaming somebody because there may be a context at play and the person might say “we have to do this, and if we don’t do that, the democracy you enjoyed for 15 years, you wouldn’t have enjoyed it. If I didn’t take this step, no matter how you look at it, the jinx we could not break since our independence, we could have broken it. I wasn’t taking that step because of me, I took it because of the nation.’ That’s why I have been contextualising it. Secondly, when in 2003, maybe because of his actions, we allowed a system overrun, then it would have just ended like the Second Republic. So at times, leaders should have the burden and you should reflect deeply. I have had people say Obasanjo did this or that. Obasanjo and Buhari became democratic leaders of Nigeria under different context. Obasanjo had the burden of history. When even some people in the military didn’t want him to hand over, he handed over and less than five years later, they were laughing at him. They took over government and brought it back to status quo. Still in light of strengthening democratic institutions, if for instance, INEC, as some people say was made completely independent then, no body will be accused of interfering in its affairs to conduct credible elections? Institutional development takes time. If you set up an organisation and you don’t look into it over the years, that organisation can collapse. The important thing that happened to our democracy under President Obasanjo was that we crossed different milestones that we were not able to cross before and the fact that three tenures were successfully crossed, our democracy became robust enough that it was also able to carry a debt within the system without collapsing. The issue is, when you became Mr President, how were you able to give more life to the system? We should put issues in context. From the point you became Mr. President, where were we? We should be looking at the point where Jonathan’s administration ended. You paint a picture supposing that the opposition should have won this election. Do you think the opposition did enough to win this election? Some people have argued that a situation where there was a CUPP arrangement and some parties in the CUPP are also fielding candidates for elections undermined the opposition? If you do a proper interview more that 80 percent of Nigerians will tell you that Atiku Abubakar won the Presidential election and I can tell you why. Whether people campaigned or not; whether they did enough or not, at times the work of the failure of the incumbent have done your campaign for you. They said they will bring Boko Haram to an end that was part of the reason they were elected in the first place, otherwise the last administration was building Almajiri schools and putting some structures on ground for the northern lower class to come up. But because of the insurgency situation, people felt the situation needed more urgency and at the end of the day, the situation is still there. Then they campaigned on anti-corruption and all we can see, even hearing from them does not portray that. The national chairman of the party will come out openly and say, if you want your sins to be forgiven, you come to our party and they made mockery of even the anti-corruption crusade that anybody who may be taking over power to really fight corruption will be thinking of how to fight it because he may be misunderstood. Or, is it the people from the South-east, who he said at the time he was taking over that they gave him only 5 percent of votes, if you manage to get 5 percent of anything I will do, you know it is because of constitutional provision and he stuck to that. Is it these people that will now be looking for you to vote for you? So at times the failure of the incumbent can do your campaign for the opposition. Do you think that the election outcome can be reversed by the judiciary? It is for the judiciary to do that. But when you are taking any decisions in these matters you must be firm and ensure justice. I know sometimes when some officials are confronted with a case that is so bad, they will say for national interest so and so should happen. When I look at this case, I say come, what is the national interest. We had violence, we had mourning everywhere; we had ballot stuffing, we’ve seen it. With this era of ICT, as things are happening everywhere, people are seeing them. So does its serve any national interest? These are the things that the judiciary will all look at. However, I am not a judge and I am not a lawyer. I am just a patriotic Nigerian. So it is left to them and their conscience. Let us look into your party. There was so much promise about your party in the build up to the election. Is that promise still there? What does your party hope to do between now and the next circle of elections? The promise is still there. ADC fielded the greatest number of youths and young people to run election. We gave the incentives and many young people took advantage of the incentives. To run for House of Assembly, our fees were minimal, N450,000 and if you are below 40 years you pay only 50 percent. Because of that, we had a lot of young men and women who joined to run elections under our party. For women, we had waivers. Despite the fact that our fees are low, you can also run without any payments. So we had a lot of young men and women running for elections at various levels on our platform. All of them ran the best elections you can ever imagine. Unfortunately, the incumbents, whether it is the APC or the PDP, in their different quarters, did not allow them thrive in a free and fair contest. That is why we say, that the mentality of ‘I am an incumbent and I must own this state by hook and crook’ is not a good signal. That is why we are crying in this election. because we have been able to mobilise young men and women to take their future in the hands by contesting in the electoral space and that future was dashed. Not because they did not do very well. I have a young girl in Nsukka in Enugu State, who ran election and ran the best election you can ever think about, mobilised the university community, mobilised the people around there and ran the best campaigns so much so that a week before the election people were congratulating the ADC. But on the election day, there was shooting everywhere. Now you ask yourself, am I mobilising young men to become effective leaders for tomorrow or am I now supposed to train them in act of militia? These are the critical questions we have to answer. So the recklessness and the desperation that an incumbent cannot lose election no matter what cost the ADC from coming up with the results that are deserving of us. That is why we must look into these hook and crook tendencies because it will make young people and well-meaning people to run away from politics and you destroy the system. So what happened to the CUPP arrangement? The CUPP was for a purpose. It was to deliver the presidency and they delivered. It is left to the justice system in this country to sort itself out. If it sorts itself out, the CUPP has delivered. They delivered very well. Nigerians are not happy with the number of parties we have now; 91 political parties. Are they not too many? We have 91 registered political parties but still reflects this collusion that I have continued to talk about. When the INEC leadership came on board, we had 24 parties. All of a sudden, INEC decided that for it to achieve scripted results, they need to make it humongous so that there will be confusion in the system. Is it about INEC or the law that is so weak? Hold on. The law is weak and the administrators of INEC had also been taking time and acting in such a way to over bloat it. That is why from 1998 to 2015; a period of 17 years, we had 25 parties. Then how come that in three years you now made it almost 100. It will overwhelm the capacity in place. Anybody should know that. You only did it for ill-intention. It is not about whether Nigeria can have 200 political parties. If so, then yes. It is possible but then, it should not be something that happens overnight. There are countries that have less than 10 million population with up to over 60 political parties but the issue is that moving from 25 that the people who were in INEC from the last 17 years to 91, within one electoral circle, you are calling for disaster. So what happened in this present case was done intentionally. For me, I am not for regulating the number of political parties. You cannot legislate humans coming together. You cannot say if I am not able to associate with you I should not look for people I can associate with. The system can. Just set a good system in place and it will. That is why I told you that the system in place was able to hold them at 25. So does the INEC of Prof Mahmood have only registration of political parties as its work?  You can use administrative mechanism to check the over bloating of the system if you don’t have some thoughts of evil. You have to grow the system so that if eventually you want to have 1000 political parties, the system is equally improving to be able to handle it meaningfully. If for instance, you have 1000 political parties and on the days of elections, elections have gone so electronic that you can even stay in your house and press your phone and vote, whether you have 2000 political parties and some people want to form other groups, you can take it. You know in Europe people who have certain belief can form their own party, they may only be less than 30 members but you must have arranged your system so that that does not overstretch what you put on ground. But we saw how groups of political parties took clearly defined partisan parts along lines of either PDP or APC. The allegation is that they did this for their own interests. So how do you reconcile that with your claim that INEC is allowing so many parties…? I am saying that if our system is developed, you can sit in your house and say I want to support so and so candidate who is running for president and that you want to come from the structure of your party to say that your party is endorsing him. It is still the job of the regulatory agency that is doing registration to know that such things are possible and for them to have administrative procedure to handle them. So if you mean well and you are forward looking you will find a way of doing some of these regulations. In the last executive meeting of your party, you made reference to the need for electoral reforms, what kind of electoral reforms do you mean? I ask because we have had a lot of electoral reforms in this country, so what new and practicable perspective are you bringing? Manipulating institutions, especially the electoral body, INEC must be looked into. INEC must be reconstructed and a good template must be put down to check this culture of impunity where the INEC persons think that they owe the ruling party. Something must be done about that. For me, it can happen in different ways. First of all we should look at the way they are appointed and the way they are financed. That electoral reform will help. Secondly, we have come to the era of some staggered election, which was not what we planned initially. It came to us because of a system challenge where people rigged elections and the court had to come in. That has happened at the state level. It must happen at the federal level sooner or later, it must happen so that politicians will get disciplined. Otherwise, people can think that they can always manipulate the system and nothing will happen. Furthermore, we need a reform that get the elections to hold when we as a country want them to hold. What do I mean? For instance, Kogi election is coming in November, other state election will come after that, they now all have to be staggered due to court judgment, it is not that we agreed that these elections should be holding at different times. So we need to have a reform, so that every thing is brought together again. This is because people start using the isolated election to experiment the type of rigging they will apply in the general election and that is not healthy for the country. Also from our staggered elections we have too many holidays. There are too many election days. In the United States, even with their bigger population, they conduct all their critical elections in one day. The ones they don’t conduct on the set day, they are not because of failures but because of their constitutional provisions and the laws of the states. It is not because the court moved the dates of elections. However, I have seen elections at local government levels; county elections, mayoral elections, governorship elections, state congress election, even senators and congressmen election and other elections take place in one day. If they take place on one day in the US, they can also take place on one day here. Assuming we want to give ourselves public holiday, it should just be one. After the first election in the 2019 general election was moved; all of a sudden when we all woke up and they said elections cannot take place; I said who gave some of these agencies and government the audacity to feel that they can just wake up and kill our working days, give holidays and deny public and private organisations the time to work; the time to harness their investments and so on, just because you are INEC? Who gave a government agency the audacity to feel that they can just ground the country? It is wrong. The way we are going now, because of the type of elections we have conducted, elections will start to happen in more than 20 states at different dates by the time they finish the adjudications in this election. So we must design our system to keep our elections at the time that we have designed they should hold. It is very important because the rate with which we give public holidays in the country does not promote any quality economy. So these are areas we are looking at. Also, there is no respect for rules and processes. The people at the Presidency are still acting as if they are the alpha and omega. They want to deal with legislative houses; they want to deal with the judiciary, just as we are now seeing. So we need to reframe some of these architectures so that people who have their work to do will know their limitations and the president and all arms and tiers of government will know that they have limitations. It is critically important. Our democracy is growing and as it is growing, some of the things that should make it stronger should be properly put in place.