Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) has called for equal opportunities in the technology space, saying that girls and women are most times at the background. Mr Jide Awe, the Chairman, Conferences Committee of the NCS, made the call in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Friday on the occasion of the International Girls in ICT Day, celebrated annually on the fourth Thursday of April. International Girls in ICT Day is a day recognised around the world to support the creation of global environment that empowers and encourages girls and young women into economic development activities. Awe said “NCS acknowledges the contributions and impact of women working in ICT, especially female members of NCS, as women in tech are critical to the digital development of Nigeria. “Women can do the same things that men are doing, the challenge is really not that there is any special way things are done but having an inclusive environment that allows women the same opportunities as men. “We find out that this is not just in Nigeria but the world over, the perception that ICT is a male dominated field and so women not allowed to feature. “Even when you look at admission in educational institutions, it usually has more men in technology career and that is where the problemstarts.” He said that environment and culture also see the career as for men and urged parents to stop the discrimination against girls in the home. He, however, added that evidence had shown that women could also do well in Information Technology (IT) courses if given the opportunity. He added that these days more women pick up carrers in IT and were doing well, and urged the younger girls to see them as role models. He advised women to organise themselves into groups and have mentoring sessions so as to put the younger women through the basic needs to IT and ICT. He said “women need to discuss issues concerning them, become pressure groups, table their grievances to government, organise programmes, mentor younger girls and make it possible for the young ones to meet their mentors.”  (NAN)