Challenge Initiative (TCI), an NGO in Bauchi State, has identified lack of community links to health facilities as the biggest obstacles to clients in accessing Family Planning (FP) services in the state. Mrs Rabi Ekele, the state TCI Programme Coordinator, said this at the inauguration of five Primary Health Care (PHC) centres at Nabordo, Toro Local Government Area, on Monday. She said the biggest challenge faced by clients was the long distance to health centres where FP services were provided. She listed long distance to health facility, unavailability of preferred contraceptive methods and absenteeism of FP providers as some of the obstacles to the care. Ekele explained that the 74 hours makeover of PHCs in the state was to provide conducive atmosphere for the clients of FP, antenatal care and child delivery. She noted that the project was in collaboration with the State Government through provision of technical knowledge and building the capacity of government workers, caregivers, traditional rulers and religious leaders on the advancement of child birth spacing. Earlier, the state Family Planning Coordinator, Mrs Hajara Yahaya, said that the TCI initiative had encouraged number of clients to access FP services in the state. She said FP was arguably one of the most important public health advancements in the state. According to her, childbirth spacing determined woman’s ability to decide if and when to have children. She explained that FP services included counselling, education and access to contraception.
Earlier, Mr Adamu Gamawa, the Executive Chairman, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, urged the communities to explore the opportunity given to them through the health facilities. Gamawa said previously FP usage were low among people living in rural communities, such as husband’s disagreement on contraceptive use, perceived side effects, infant mortality and negative traditional practices. Others, he said, were desires such as naming relatives, knowledge gaps on contraceptive methods, fears, rumours and misconceptions about specific methods. He said the collaboration between the TCI and the state government had yielded effective result by improving access to child birth spacing services in the state.