The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) said it demolished a portion of fence, a gate house, and a gate, belonging to the management Daar Communications Plc, owners of AIT and Raypower, at its Asokoro district head office because of encroachment. Briefing newsmen at the end of the demolition exercise in Abuja yesterday, coordinator of Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Tpl Umar Shuaibu stated that the structures were removed because they had encroached on some plots belonging to other people and the refusal by the management of DAAR Communications Plc to abide by the mutual agreement reached between it and the administration. He maintained that the demolition was not intended to inflict any pain on the owners of the property, rather it was to enable other citizens have access to their properties. The coordinator added that the removal of the structures is also a culmination of series of meetings between the management of DAAR Communications Plc and the Federal Capital Territory administration to end many years of misunderstanding. “Specifically, in November last year, the management of DAAR Communications led by High Chief Raymond Dokpesi paid a courtesy visit to the FCT Minister and they were received on his behalf by the chief of staff to the FCT Minister, Bashir Mai-Borno, who led the FCTA team made up of relevant directors and others in the discussions. The purpose of the discussions was to resolve the protracted dispute regarding the actual size of land legally allocated to DAAR Communications as against the area covered by their perimeter fence. The whole idea was for both parties to mutually agree to reach a settlement that would bring about permanent solution and forge ahead for the development of the FCT and the nation at large.” He maintained that since the management of Daar Communications Plc had failed to abide by the agreement reached between it and the administration, the agency was therefore left with no other option than to do the needful by removing the illegal structures, so that other allottees can have free access to their plots. Also speaking, the director of development control department, Tpl Mukhtar Galadima, revealed that there are about 18 hectares of land within the Daar Communications Plc’s premises, adding that none of the properties belonging to the media outfit was damaged during the demolition exercise. However, the group managing director (GMD) of Daar Communications Plc, Tony Akiotu, who was at the scene of the demolition exercise, told newsmen that the management of the media organisation would comment on the matter at the appropriate time. “We are not ready to say anything about the demolition exercise now, but when we are ready with our facts we will address the press on the matter,” he said.   