Ahead of his second term, President Muhammadu Buhari will  dissolve his cabinet on May 22. Minister of information, Lai Mohammad, disclosed this to State House correspondents after the federal executive council (FEC)  meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to him, the president would hold a valedictory session with FEC members on May 22. Mohammed stated that, as directed by President Buhari, the ministers were already preparing their handover notes which they would submit to Permanent Secretaries in their respective ministries before the administration winds down completely. “We will be having a valedictory session on 22nd May. The cabinet remains intact,” he said. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that the president had last week asked for a comprehensive “status reports on policies, programmes and projects” from cabinet members on their respective ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). These reports had Wednesday, April 24, 2019 as the deadline for submission to the Presidential Audit Committee in the Office of the Vice President. A circular to that effect issued by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, also requested FEC members to “ensure that all outstanding memoranda they intend to present to the Federal Executive Council are submitted to the Cabinet Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, not later than Tuesday, 30th April, 2019.”  . . . Embarks On Vacation In UK President Muhammadu  Buhari yesterday proceeded to the United Kingdom on a 10-day private visit. According to a statement issued by his special adviser on media ,Femi Adesina, the  president is expected to return to Nigeria on May 5, 2019. Adesina noted that after the official visit by President Buhari to Lagos on Wednesday where he commissioned a number of projects executed by the state government, he was scheduled to depart for Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, for another official visit yesterday where he was expected to commission developmental projects especially in the sectors of education, healthcare and roads. “At the end of the visit, President Buhari will be proceeding to the United Kingdom on a private visit. He is expected to return to Nigeria on May 5, 2019,” he said.