Following the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s reduction of the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has disclosed it was time for the fiscal and monetary authorities to address the challenge of investment risk across all sectors of the economy to boost flow of credit to the private sector. Director-general of the LCCI, Muda Yusuf, who stated this while commenting on the CBN’s MPC communiqué in Lagos, explained that the federal government and the CBN need to work collaboratively to moderate investment risk in the economy to boost the flow of credit to the private sector, boost investment growth and create jobs. He said that the LCCI welcomed the decision by the apex bank to reduce the MPR by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent. According to him, this was in consonance with the clamour by the private sector for a relaxation of the tight monetary policy regime in the light of weak consumer demand, fragile economic growth and high rate of unemployment. However, the DG of LCCI affirmed that the MPR reduction would not have a materially significant impact on the ailing economy, but it has a symbolic and signalling value that the CBN is already having a paradigm shift in its policy from stability to growth. According to Yusuf,  the reality was that the economy was currently characterised by fragile growth at 2.3 per cent, unemployment at 23.1 per cent and youth unemployment at 36.5 per cent, high dependence on crude oil export, weak diversification and high poverty incidence. With these prevailing economic challenges, Yusuf noted that the economy needs both monetary and fiscal stimulus at a period to galvanise it from its ailing condition. He stated that “The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomes the decision by the CBN to reduce the MPR by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent. This is in consonance with the clamour by the private sector for a relaxation of the tight monetary policy regime in the light of weak consumer demand, fragile economic growth and high rate of unemployment. We acknowledge that this reduction is not materially significant, but it has a symbolic and signalling value.” He emphasised that the economy needs both monetary and fiscal stimulus at a time like this, saying that “We request that the challenge of investment risk across all sectors of the economy be addressed.” He noted that the fiscal and monetary authorities need to work collaboratively to moderate investment risk in the economy, adding that this was very critical to boost the flow of credit to the private sector, boost investment growth and create jobs.