24 months after, as we traversed the long hot and dusty road from Adamawa back to Abuja, my concerned friend who insisted we check to ascertain the cause of a particular recurring noise emitting from the rear of the vehicle we were traveling; being the pilot and someone familiar with the road, I didn’t want to pullover in any lonely path so, less than a clique away from the Bauchi town, I decided to pullover so we could check. As a tested driver, I pulled the car over, away from the wonderfully tarred road only to discover that we had just packed inside the popular Bauchi sand dune! Behold, three frustrating hours were consumed under the scorching Bauchi sun. There we were until the first set of sympathizers came calling; men of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Bauchi branch on patrol. Immediately they saw we were in trouble, they disembarked from their ‘Sharon’ van, I could almost place a bet that they were expecting to see us, because they came prepared to tow the vehicle out. They had their tow rope tied behind the Infiniti Jeep we rode in and made to have the vehicle removed, only to discover that their vehicle was no match for the partly submerged jeep. For share intensity of the pull, we could see smoke emitting from the gear box of vehicle. They looked at me, shook their head and said, ‘Allah ye ki a ye’ (May God help you) and then they drove off. By now, we had ran out of drinking water and every other vehicle just passed us as if we were just ornamentals on that lonely highway until a group of Fulani traders on their way to the market stopped over. Yes! Fulani traders and with sympathy on their faces, the first person that came for us looked at me and said in hausa, ‘ya ya mutane sun gane ku a damuwa haka suka wuche baa teimoko?’ (Why should people see you in trouble and drive in as if nothing is wrong)? Next thing, he beckoned on their driver to move closer. Numbering about ten of them, they asked, how I wanted the car pulled out.  I suggested that a rear pull would be better. These guys practically lifted the jeep out with the help of their ‘Iron horse’. By Iron horse, I meant an old model of a Toyota Hilux van; it is known to surmount notorious terrains.  Did I forget to add that the efforts of little Shepard tending to his cattle in the bush who, saw that we were helpless, left his cattle to wonder and came to assist? The boy was so restless, he hadn’t the strength or ability to remove the vehicle, but he was very resolved to assist, at a point, I started to feel for the young lad. We literally begged him to go his way but he will have none of that. Try as we could, he was not done with us yet; he stayed and helped to push the car out. You needed to see the sense of fulfillment in their faces, my heart swelled with joy, an unusual phenomenon in me. Did I add that I offered to give them money and they looked at me and said ‘Haba! sobode motan nan zaka baya da kudi? I begged them to collect it, eventually giving them N2000. You needed to see how contented they were; it struck me. I had to give the boy more, so I could satisfy my conscience. This is a summary of events that marked 1 year of becoming a man…Kai!