The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), has denied claims that it owed  the Rivers Internal Revenue Service (RIRS) N50 billion. NDDC director of corporate affairs, Charles Odili, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday, expressed surprise at the claims of RIRS, saying that the commission’s record revealed that the claim is incorrect. The statement reads in part: “The NDDC as a responsible corporate organisation, wishes to state clearly that it has not defaulted in meeting its tax obligations to the Rivers State Internal Revenue Services, RIRS. “The commission is surprised that the state revenue agency is claiming an outstanding fifty billion naira (N50,000,000.00). Our records show that this is not correct. It is rather curious that the RIRS will rush to seal the gates of the Commission and disrupting activities at its headquarters, without any form of notification. “We have had cause to discuss our tax obligations with officials of the RIRS in the past and all the grey areas were resolved amicably. It is, therefore, an act of bad faith for the revenue agency to begin to take actions that impugns on the reputation of an interventionist agency that is serving the people of the Niger Delta region”. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Commission had on January this year settled its outstanding tax obligations to the RIRS. We have cleared all Withholding tax (WHT) on enterprises and Pay as you earn (PAYE) up to March, 2019, including arrears”. “If there is any other issue of outstanding tax obligation (underpayment), it will only come up after reconciliation.’’ ““Until then, we cannot establish or determine under payment or overpayment. And our books are open for audit or reconciliation”. “It is not right for only one party to claim to have established that there is under payment or overpayment.  That can only come to play after a thorough audit exercise. We can, under the circumstances safely say that the RIRS came to seal off our premises without due process, as notice of non-compliance was neither issued nor served on NDDC before the RIRS action”. “We therefore call on the RIRS to remove the sealing order on our premises to enable both parties enter into dialogue and agreeably resolve our differences.” But, in a swift reaction, RIRS Chairman, Adoage Norteh, said the sealing of the NDDC premises was based on a High Court order, saying that the management of the Commission were aware of the decision of the Court in relation to the revenue accrued to the state from the agency.