The story you have heard about Governor Yahaya Bello may be that of failure and dictatorship. Some will boom the speakers to the level of an insensitive governor. Even a sitting Reps member called him a looter. In the next few weeks, your negative perception of him will change because we shall be easing you into the True Knowledge of who GYB (as the governor is fondly called) is and how he has been working so hard to change the Kogi narratives. We shall stick completely to issues and remove the veils glued to the eyes of those who have misconceptions about the youngest governor ever in the history of our dear state. In this first series, we shall be speaking on the success of enthroning unity in the state. Come with me as we travel through the knowledge-injecting piece. A few weeks to the gubernatorial primaries in Kogi State, one of the aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Kogi East was so bitter and was complaining to some of his colleagues from that axis against Hon. Edward Onoja. The sin of the latter was “conniving with a non-Igala man to take away the Governorship from the axis”. To those set of people, the only criteria for emerging as the governor of our dear state is to come from a particular zone. Since 1991, the political elites played up the ethnic card. They hid behind it to perpetrate ineffectual political exclusion and concealed their lack of leadership credentials. It was the only card they had! As a key figure in the campaigns, I was privy to pictures of pupils and students sitting on the floor across the state, including the immediate communities of the ethnic jingoists. Clinics were clinically annihilated. Roads were death traps. And when they got an opportunity of N2 billion to build entrepreneurs among our youth, they submitted names and pocketed the funds! When GYB saw all of those underwhelming scenarios, he chose to run a government that believes in unity, equity and fairness. He made a strong campaign point because it was a strong cog in the wheels of our development. He didn’t stop with the promise. He acted. On the day of his inauguration as Governor, he made three key appointments: Hon Edward Onoja – Chief of Staff to the Governor – Kogi East Hon Abdulmalik Abdulkarim – Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Publicity – Kogi Central Hon. Kingsley Fanwo – Chief Press Secretary to the Governor- Kogi West Those strategic appointments heralded a sharp departure from the past. For the first time, a Chief of Staff emerged from a different zone from that of the governor. Those three appointments were spread across the three senatorial districts in the state. Two of the three were Christians! When we have a sitting governor who practices Islam! Kogi witnessed fresh dew that reassured the people that the real problems of the State were maladministration, poor leadership, corruption and injustice. A new Kogi was born where what you get is determined by what you can offer rather than the language you speak! For breaking the ethnic walls, GYB will be remembered in history for his braveness and firmness in building a united and prosperous Kogi State. He didn’t stop at that; he made a state policy to spread appointments and projects across the three senatorial districts. He knew the Omi Dam Agric Project was going to be the biggest in the state. He didn’t care it was not going to be Okene or Okehi. He has been fair to all and sundry. Today, Kogites swim in the fresh waters of unity and opportunities. Merit and comparative advantage have been the guiding principles and progress has been inevitable. The power of unity is incredibly indomitable! A United People is a powerful People! Unity builds. Unity wins. Unity enthrones trust and kills fears! Unity is a force that can defeat the biggest artilleries. The 2019 general elections cleared doubts. There were strong feelings that a section of the State was going to revolt against the All Progressives Congress led by the Governor. Those who believed that thought we had not conquered the past. But that section proved that they are with their Governor. When we lost one of the most colourful leaders of our party, late Chief James Ocholi, there were moves by some leaders of the party from Kogi West to replace him. But the fovernor of the Igalas, Ebiras and Okun rebuffed the moves. He ensured justice!  Today, the Attah Igala who is the head of the traditional institution in the state has unfettered access to the seat of power. He is consulted for advice and recommendations. He is seeing a new Kogi State. It takes a determined patriot to unite a people. GYB is that man. He sees every Kogite as his and every Kogite sees him as the governor of a United People of Kogi State. Whenever the history of Kogi is written, GYB will be remembered as a unifier and a bridge builder, the man who dismantled the strong walls of disunity and ethnic bias. To him, Kogi can only be prosperous when unity is achieved. Today, Kogites are united behind him. Those who parade themselves today as his challengers are poignant reminders of the yesteryears of disunity and destruction. With GYB, we are marching forward into our greatness. –Fanwo is the Director General of Media and Publicity to Kogi State governor