The Bastar Band and Brides of India were at their best as the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), celebrated 2019 day in grand style. India and Nigeria have had a mutually beneficial relationship since the latter first established a diplomatic house in Lagos in 1958. A vibrant performance by the Bastar Band, a group of heritage keepers, represented the entire Bastaria community, its traditional tales, myths, evolution, deities customs and musical instruments that are on the verge of extinction. A ‘Brides of India’ shown by the Indian Women’s Association (IWA), Abuja was also held, at which dresses won by Indian women from different states of Indian were shown, along with an indian wedding display. IWA also handed over donations to selected charity organisation of Nigeria. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Abasubong Samson Idiong, (PhD) Instructional Lecturer & Research Supervisor at the Faculty of Social Sciences, National Open University of Nigeria, who completed his PhD in Rural and Community development of African Studies, University of Delhi from 1995-1998, express his deep appreciation for ICCR scholarship programme for graduate, post-graduate and doctoral studies in India, which has contributed immensely to people-to-people level ties between Indian and Nigeria. Meanwhile, general election in Indian, the largest democratic exercise in the world, are underway, with the counting of votes to be conducted on 23rd May 2019 and on same day the results will be declared. A short film on the elections was shown during the celebration. The event was attended by over 500 guests comprising Nigerian dignitaries and friends of Indian from various walk of life, as well as members of the Indian community and diplomatic and diplomatic corps. High Commissioner Shri Abhay Thakur applauded the government and the people of Nigeria, for their abiding and enthusiastic support to the further strengthening of Indian-Nigeria cultural and educational cooperation. India cultural day will be remembered for