As part of measures to further strengthen the mortgage banking industry, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has issued an exposure guideline for licencing and regulation of Primary Mortgage Banks (PMBs) in the country. According to the CBN director, Financial Policy and Regulation Department, Ibrahim Tukur, the guideline is aimed at repositioning the mortgage sector with a view to harnessing its potentials for sustained economic growth. The guideline for the mortgage banking sector last issued in 2011 had introduced enhanced requirements for capital, risk management, internal control and corporate governance. However, Tukur said that in spite of the measures, the mortgage subsector has continued to struggle against headwinds occasioned by unfavourable macroeconomic and other developments Tukur said the guidelines have been reviewed to strengthen PMBs as well as compliment other on-going reforms in the mortgage subsector. The exposure guidelines released at the weekend stipulates a minimum capital base of N8 billion for PMBs with national license while regional PMBs are to have a minimum capital base of N5 billion. According to the guideline, all PMBs must publish financial reports in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as well as develop,  implement  and  submit  evidence of implementation  of  an  internal  control  framework. It also stipulates that PMBs maintain a minimum cash reserve ratio of two per cent of adjusted deposit liabilities which would be in its reserve account with the CBN. They are also to maintain a minimum ratio of 20 per cent on specified liquid assets against deposit liabilities.  “Specified liquid assets shall include treasury bills, fund placements, money at call and short-term investments with not more than 90 days maturity” the guideline stated stipulating that they maintain a “minimum capital adequacy ratio of 10 percent against risk assets. A minimum of 60 percent of mortgage assets to total assets.  “A minimum of 70 per cent of loanable funds should be used in the creation of mortgage assets.  For the avoidance of doubt, loanable funds shall be construed as the amount of total deposit plus funds from NHF and other on-lending facilities less cash reserve and liquidity ratios of a Primary Mortgage Bank,” the guidelines stated.