The vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP) in the last general election and former governor of Anambra state, Mr Peter Obi has explained why he spent this year’s Easter Holiday in hospitals across Anambra State. Mr Obi spoke yesterday at Umueje, Ayamelum local government area when he visited the Diocesan Hospital in the town, accompanied by the Anglican Bishop of Niger West, Most Rev. Dr. Johnson  Ekwe and two Commissioners under his administration as governor, Prof. Stella Okunna and Chief Barr. Joe-Martins Uzodike. He said his decision to visit hospitals were borne out of the inspiration he got in December, during Christmas celebration. Obi said: “In season and out of season, I visited schools in all the parts of the country offering them my modest support. During the Christmas celebration, I visited motherless babies homes and prisons, but upon reflection, as if by inexplicable inspiration, my mind kept urging me to visit the sick as another group that needed to be shown special love and concern. This was how I resolved to visit hospitals in the state. Apart from few in the towns that enjoyed special relationship with me, my resolution is to visit hospitals in the remotest parts of the state.” LEADERSHIP learnt that Mr. Obi, whose  intention was to visit about 50 designated hospitals in the remotest parts of the state as part of his Easter celebration, has already visited 12 hospitals some of which are Diocesan Hospital of the Anglican diocese of Amichi; St. Charles Borromeo hospital of the Catholic Archdiocese of Onitsha; Iyi-Enu hospital of the Anglican diocese on the Niger; Anglican diocesan hospital at Otuocha and Omor. Obi also visited the Umueje hospital; and St. Mary’s hospital  Orsumoghu of the Catholic diocese of Nnewi, among others. The PDP vice-presidential candidate during the visit issued out a cheque of One million Naira to each of the hospitals he visited and urged other wealthy Nigerians to shun spending on frivolities but for those things that would enrich humanity.