The Indian high commissioner to Nigeria, Mr. Abhay Thakur ,has solicited federal government’s support in addressing biosafety crisis considered to be at the front burner of national development. To this end, he observed that Nigeria is bedeviled with a lot of ecological challenges that required assistance from countries that had already tackled similar problems. He stated this in Abuja during his courtesy visit to the minister of environment, Hassan Suleiman Zarma. Thakur advocated the need to strengthen the bilateral tie between Nigeria and India, especially in the areas of renewable energy, sustainable development and other environmental issues. He pointed out that Nigeria and India have always enjoyed healthy and strategic cooperation, saying that some Indian teachers and doctors were resident in Nigeria in the past. The high commissioner hinted that the relationship between the two countries dated back from three to four generations, when Indian doctors and teachers contributed in shaping Nigeria’s healthcare and educational system. He said that Nigeria is a very hospitable country as most of the Indian teachers and doctors never wanted to return back to their country. Thakur further sought for renewed cooperation and collaboration between the two countries, since Nigeria has the highest population in Africa ,while India with a staggering population of over 900 million is world’s third most populated nation. The high commissioner harped on the need for both countries to mutually-synergise and speak with one voice on global environmental issues at international forums. He assured that a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on renewable energy between the two countries would be signed soon. On his part, the minister of environment, Hassan Suleiman Zarma , re-affirmed the existing healthy bilateral relationship between Nigeria and India, adding that the tie benefited both countries in the education, healthcare and economic development sectors. He maintained that he benefited from the relationship having been taught by Indian teachers. Zarma indicated that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) recently ratified the International Solar Alliance agreement, just as he expressed optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari would soon sign it into law.