A 35-year-old pastor, Daniel Chukwu, has been remanded in prison custody for having sex romp with two blood sisters between the ages of five and seven years in Lagos. The incident happened at Omodiagu Street, Fire Bus Stop, in Ijegun area of Lagos, where they reside. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that, the father of two children and a minister at an undisclosed church allegedly engaged the seven-year-old victim by forcefully penetrating her while the five-year-old girl was abused by the accused who reportedly inserted his finger into her private since he had earlier tried to penetrate her with his manhood but was not successful. According to the mother of the victims, she had sent the eldest on an errand to their house from her shop, to bring recharge cards for her customers but she stayed several hours before she returned. The curious mother asked what delayed her but the daughter did not disclose what happened. The mother prodded her further while reminding her that whoever commits any sin must confess otherwise such a person would go to hell fire. The little girl then became remorseful, opened up and revealed that Pastor Nwosu had sex with her in their corridor. While the victim was confessing, her younger sister also revealed that same Pastor had removed her pant and inserted his finger into her private. The matter was reported to the Gender Section of the Police Command; the suspect was taken to the Command where he reportedly confessed. After interrogation, the police found him culpable and charged him before the Ogba Magistrates’ Court for defilement, which attracts life imprisonment or several years in prison. However, the trial did not hold after the prosecutor, Inspector Raphael Donny, asked the Court to refer the matter to the DPP for advice. Thus, the magistrate, Mrs BO Osunsanmi, ordered him to be remanded in prison custody without an option of bail. The Court also directed the prosecutor to duplicate the file and send to the DPP for advice. The matter was adjourned till May 6th, 2019. Pastor Chukwu may spend several years in prison if the DPP finds him culpable; and he is tried in court and found guilty.