Universal Insurance Plc is not a new name in insurance industry in the country, its a brand that has withstand several ups and down and still standing strong. The company has continued to move from strength to strength, especially, in the area of product offering and honouring genuine insurance claims, at least, since Mr. Ben Ujoatuonu becomes the managing director of the insurance company. For instance, the underwriting firm paid a sum of N194.9 million as claims in its 2017 financial year, while it equally paid N340.9 million in its 2018 financial year, recording about 80 percentage increase within the period under review. This increase, according to findings, is a testament that the company never renege from its promise of paying genuine claims when an insured risk occurs. Moreover, its Gross Premium rose significantly to N1.6 billion in 2018 compared to N753 million it recorded in 2017, thereby, recording over 100 percentage growth between 2017 and 2018 financial year. Coupled with this, it also has array of products to delight its customers nationwide. Its Third Party Fire and Theft Insurance Cover offers the middle-ground level of protection as it would give the policyholders a better level of cover than third-party only, but you wouldn’t be as well protected as if you’d taken out a comprehensive policy. This insurance covers; Third Party Property Damage, Third Party Death and Bodily Injury, Third-party medical treatment costs, Theft or attempted theft of the insured vehicle and Fire damage to the insured vehicle. Its Third Party Motor Insurance provides benefits in the event of; Death or bodily injury to a third party arising out of the use of the insured car and damage to property other than property belonging to the insured. On the other hand, its Burglary and Housebreaking Insurance Policy is designed to provide compensation against loss of or damage to one’s property as a result of burglary or any attempt threat. The cover also includes damage to building(s) for which the insured is responsible resulting from the theft. Moreover, its Business Interruption Insurance is a form of insurance coverage that replaces business income lost as a result of an event that interrupts the operations of the business, such as fire or a natural disaster, among others. Business interruption insurance is not sold as a separate policy, but is either added to a property/casualty policy or included in a comprehensive package policy. Speaking to LEADERSHIP on this development, the managing director, Universal Insurance PLC, Mr. Ben Ujoatuonu, noted that the company is presently meeting all its obligations especially, in the area of prompt claims settlement to clients and other stakeholders, adding that, the insurer is liquid enough to carry out its civic responsibilities. He stated that his company is capitalising on the potentials in the retail market to deepen insurance penetration, noting that the wholesale market is already saturated. The credibility of its brand lies in its underwriting skills, innovative insurance solutions, financial strength, superior service and prompt claims settlement. Universal Insurance Plc is one of the nation’s largest personal lines insurers. With over N11 billion in assets, it sells all lines of general insurance, including auto, property and commercial insurances.