A lady identified as Adeniyi Balikis Olajumoke working with Interest Day Cooperative and Investment Limited, Polytechnic, Ibadan on Friday died in an auto crash along Mokola-Sango-University of Ibadan road while two others sustained injuries. Our correspondent gathered that the auto crash which involved a tricycle and a waste disposal truck occurred at Leventis Bus Stop at about 9:30 am on Friday when the tricycle with number plate RU 152 UP, ran into the waste bin disposal truck with the description MARC LAMMERTYN, leaving one person death and two other critically injured. An eye witness, Bamgbose Omobola said over speeding of the tricycle driver was what led to the accident, adding that the lady died on the spot. “The lady was coming from GTB at Ajibade where she went to pay her school fees. Her phone was recovered from her bag and this was what made it easy for us to get in touch with her parents. “The two other victims who have fractures in their head and leg have been taking to the hospital for treatment”, he said. Another eyewitness, Adelowotan Adelani said the owner of the tricycle was doing naming ceremony today, and that was why he gave the tricycle to Baba Mercy who was the driver of the tricycle that was involved in the accident. “The tricycle route was from Orita Merin to Sango, this accident would not have occurred if the waste disposal truck was not packed beside the road side. “We are appealing to the present and the incoming government in Oyo State to stop these trucks from evacuating refuse and packing on the road side, the government should bring back the waste bin we are using before, whereby waste basket has been put beside the road for the people to dump their refuse there. “Oyo State government should look for another way to evacuate refuse instead of using these trucks and people should also stop dumping reduce on the road side again”, he said. When contacted, the Police Public Relation Officer of the Oyo State Police Command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, Superintendent of Police said that they are aware one Adeniyi Balikis Olajumoke working with Interest Day Cooperative and Investment Limited, Polytechnic, Ibadan was involved in an accident together with other two other victims at Leventis, along Sango-UI road, Ibadan. He disclosed that the corps of the deceased had been deposited at Adeoyo Hospital, Ring road, and the other two injured victims who identity was yet unknown had been taken to hospital for treatment. 