The Commandant of Nigeria Police Academy Wudil Zanna M. Ibrahim has called on Matriculating Cadet Officers to refrain from acts capable of undermining their status as under graduates of Police Academy. “I wonder how a Cardet would be involved in substance abuse, Scaling of the Fence, Disobedience to lawful orders, lack of commitment, and indolence leading to relegation and outright dismissal from the Institution.” The Commandant made this known during the Matriculation of 545 Cardet Officers held at the Conference Hall of the Academy yesterday. According to the Commandant ” it will be foolhardy for me not to talk about my displeasure on the issue of discipline in the institution. The Nigeria Police Force is strictly guided by the prinsciple of adherence to discipline and that is why the Academy provides a unique setting unlike other conventional Universities. Commandant Ibrahim further stated that having took notice of the various kinds of social vices in the academy ” I have been inundated with the negative stories which gives me the impression that some of us do not know the purpose of their being here. ” The Commandant who has gone down memory lane said that the Nigeria Police Academy which came into being on 15 of March, 1988 with temporary locations in Police College Kaduna and Police Training School Challawa in Kano happens to be the best in the whole of West Africa with the exception of Egypt. Mr Ibrahim who congratulated the matriculating students also drew their attention to the fact that the Nigeria Police Academy is a hybrid institution which provides for free feeding, accomodation, and free tuition for cadets with the payment of Monthly stipends for their wellbeing with a view to provide an enabling environment for full cadet participation and to encourage teaching and learning. The commandant said in order to strengthen the institution a review of it’s curriculum had been advocated ” we have just appeared before the National Assembly for a public hearing on the Police Academy Bill which will give this institution legal framework and legal backing so that our degrees and commissioning will be fully recognised.” It is in that vein that we have made a strong case for the Police Academy Council to consider the introduction of core policing courses to prepare cadets in line with international best practice. He enumerate the courses as Police Science, Security Safety, Strategic Studies, Community Safety, and Traffic Studies, Physical and Health administration, Drugs and Narcotics, Security and Disaster management among others. While commenting on some of the challenges bedeving against the academy he listed some of them as Congestions in the Hostel, Inadequate electricity, Decent and lack of conducive feeding environment inadequate Water supply as some of the albatross round the neck of the academy