A group, known as North-west Alliance for Danjuma Goje, an amalgamation of various youth associations in the region championing for the election of the former Gombe State governor as Senate president, has emerged. In a statement issued after its meeting in Kano, the chairman, North-west Alliance For Danjuma Goje, Jamilu Ibrahim Maikarofi, said the group finds it necessary to drum support for Goje in view of his achievement and experience. “As the 9th assembly prepares to be inaugurated, we want to voice out our choice, Sen Muhammad Danjuma Goje, for the job of the Senate president.” “It will be a great disservice to the nation if we keep mute while the wrong person is foisted on the nation because of some vested interests, which have recently showed their aversion to the core values of governance that President Muhammadu Buhari stood for in their absence to welcome him in Lagos recently.” “We choose to stand by Senator Goje because of his sterling qualities, which he has exhibited in all the state and national assignments handed over to him. For one, his numerous achievements in steering the affairs of Gombe state are too numerous and well known to many. And we believe this will be replicated once he emerges president of the Senate.” “Also, as the chairman of the Senate committee on Appropriations, we believe he has garnered enough experience to steer the affairs of the next Senate in the right direction for the overall general development of our great country,” the group said. The youths said they believe Goje will use the experience he has as a former executive governor for eight years, to ensure a smooth relationship with the federal executive in the next dispensation, and also use the eight year experience he also has as a federal lawmaker to ensure good understanding and mature relationship among the members of the Red Chamber. “The North-west Alliance for Danjuma Goje is ready to mobilise the teeming youths of this geopolitical entity to storm Abuja in their thousands, to solicit for the election of Danjuma Goje as the next Senate President. “We believe his election will usher in a more experienced hand at the helm of affairs at the Senate and the nation will never regret his election. We are therefore against any attempt by the ruling party to foist somebody who we believe is incomparable to Senator Goje in terms of political sagacity, experience and intellectual capacity.”