Worried by the dynamics of security challenges bedeviling Nigeria, the director general of the Department of State Security Service, Yusuf Bichi has called for interagency collaboration to tackle these challenges. The DSS boss, who made the call at the monthly meeting of the Forum of Spokespersons of Security and Response Agencies (FOSSRA) at the headquarters of the DSS in Abuja, said “The dynamics of contemporary threats such as kidnapping, terrorism, insurgency, cattle rustling, cybercrime and other forms of organized criminal activities – human, drug and currency trafficking which are confronting Nigeria require joint efforts to combat them. Inter-agency synergy has, no doubt, become the new paradigm of law enforcement and security management in today’s world. “Today, our country is bedeviled with varied security challenges. We must therefore be resolute and remain strong in the face of these challenges. Each agency must bring it wealth of experience and comparative advantage to compliment the effort of another. “With unity of purpose, we can surmount the challenges and keep Nigeria one and free from violence and crime. “You as gatekeepers and frontline managers of public communication for your respective agencies face different challenges in the course of discharging your jobs.  I urge you to bring up ideas that will build trust and promote public confidence in security agencies. As public speakers for these agencies, I urge you to continually use language that conforms with democratic culture. ” In order to successfully achieve this, you must understand and respect the delicate balance between protecting the state and citizens. Remain steadfast, committed and loyal to the course. “I therefore charge you to rededicate yourselves to the service of your fatherland.” Bichi also expressed satisfaction with all security agencies for the behaviour during the 2019 elections, noting that “I commend all the participating security and law enforcement agencies here for your sterling performances during the just concluded 2019 general elections. Kindly convey his warmest compliments to your bosses.  “Upholding the unity of our beloved country is not a task that will end with the elections. It should be sustained beyond.” Also speaking at the event, Executive secretary, Centre for Crisis Communication, CCC, Yusuf Anans FOSSRA was establish to enhance cooperation and effective communication among the security agencies. It is to help them speak with one voice on issues of national security interest and seamlessly coordinate emergency/disaster response where necessary.