The director-general of National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA), Prof. Aliyu Jauro, has challenged Nigerians on the need to utilise environmentally sound technologies to mitigate the effects of climate change. This is even as he pleaded with stakeholders to comply with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programmes and maintain environmentally – sound disposal of solid, liquid and gaseous waste. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, he enjoined all industrial facilities and the business community to carry out their activities within the scope of environmental laws of the country, with a promise to sanction defaulters. He pointed out that the job of leaving an environmentally-friendly state for the future generations cannot be compromised, adding that it’s the responsibility of Nigerians to protect the environment from all forms of hazardous substances. Jauro commended the media for their efforts in creating awareness for the agency and challenged them to do more in uplifting the image of the agency. The DG warned violators of environmental regulations to desist from such act or be sanctioned by the agency, saying that with the new amendment of NESREA Act, the era when facility managers acted with impunity was over. He disclosed that the new Act addressed all ambiguities and lapses that impeded the smooth operation of the agency, stating that NESREA was ready to effectively carry out compliance monitoring and enforcement in the industries as well as the built environment. Jauro therefore called on members of the public to familiarise themselves with environmental laws, regulations, standards, guidelines, policies and the provisions of international environmental agreements as Nigeria is a signatory to such agreements. He encouraged developers to obtain environmental impact statement and certificates from the federal ministry of environment before mobilising workers to sites and comply with environmental audit cycles. The DG hinted that part of his critical mandate is  to enforce environmental compliance and monitor the level of air quality across the states. He said though the agency has been carrying out enforcement, they were handicapped before the amendment of its Act, saying that the industries must abide by environmental laws, as it won’t be business as usual. Jauro emphasised that the new Act authorised the agency to seal and close down premises or facilities whose pollution to the environment threatens lives and properties in collaboration with security agencies before obtaining court warrant.