Only 24 Senate committees out of the 61 working on the 2019 budget have submitted their reports to the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly for further legislative work and subsequent passage. Vice chairman of the appropriations committee, Sunny Ogbuoji (APC, Ebonyi), who had earlier highlighted some of the challenges they were facing in laying the budget on the floor of the House, said the majority of the committees had not submitted their reports. “We are still having some challenges with the subcommittees because out of the 61 committees that we have, only about 24 committees have submitted their reports. And we can’t go ahead and write the appropriations report unless we get further directive from here. Our request would have been that we be allowed to now prepare this report even on behalf of the committees that have not submitted their reports,” he said. The Senate president,  Bukola Saraki, who lamented the situation, however, insisted that the Red Chamber would pass the appropriation bill this week, adding that it may have to use the one sent to it by the executive if the remaining 37 committees do not comply. “Last week, we all took a decision here that we are not going to waiver on our position. Our position is very clear: that all committees should submit (their budget reports), and those that don’t submit, then the Appropriations Committee should use the Executive submission. That position is still where we are. And I want to appeal to all our committees that you really have just till tomorrow (today) to make sure that your reports get to the Appropriations Committee because, Thursday, you must lay this report,” Saraki said. President Muhammadu Buhari had on December 19, 2018 presented a total of N8.83 trillion budget proposal for the 2019 fiscal year to the National Assembly. The Senate yesterday passed the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for  years 2019 to 2021, with the official exchange rate fixed at N305/ $1. The lawmakers also sought the adoption of N1.64 trillion as the amount for new borrowing to fund the budget deficit. Meanwhile, the Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki insisted yesterday that the senators would pass the 2019 budget estimate sent to them by the executive this week. Speaking on the committee’s recommendations on key assumptions of 2019-2021 framework, the chairman, Sen John Enoh (APC, Cross River) said the Committee recommended the adoption of 2.3mbpd as the daily production output of crude oil in 2019, adding that the target is achievable due to the continuous effort of all stakeholders in checking the vandalisation of oil facilities and other vices associated with such regard. The committee recommended the adoption of $60.0/pb as crude oil benchmark price for the 2019 fiscal year. It also recommended the adoption of N305/1$ as the official exchange rate and encouraged the CBN to continue adopting strategies that would aid in the strengthening of the Naira and bridging the gap between the official and parallel market rates in foreign exchange. Enoh  said the stability in the foreign exchange market was also complemented and supported by the continued intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in the market and the sustained increase in crude oil price in the global oil market. “The appreciation and increase in oil price aids in the stabilisation of the exchange rate market because it is the major source of forex to the country. “It is believed that the Naira will continue to appreciate as the commencement of the $2.2 billion currency swap deal with the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) and the availability of Renminbi currency to Chinese and Nigerian businesses would ease pressure on the US Dollar demand,” he said. The committee, which also recommended the adoption of N1.64 trillion as the amount for new borrowing to fund the budget deficit, advised relevant agencies to continue exploring ways of generating additional revenues for government to bring down the fiscal deficit. “Also, the federal government should harness the full optimal potential of the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development in terms of revenue generation to minimise the level of new borrowing,” the committee report stated. According to the report, debt management and servicing remains a critical component of government strategy and a number of countries in the world partially rely on borrowing to bridge their budget deficit and fund other critical government projects. The reported added: “As it currently stands, Nigeria’s public debt stock remains within acceptable debt threshold despite the recourse to debt financing to cover the significant decline in government revenues due to lower international crude oil prices, especially between 2015 and 2017. “Nigeria’s total public debt stock was N22.38 trillion ($73.21 billion) by June 30, 2018, while the ratio of Total Public Debt-to-GDP was 18.35% and is still below Nigeria’s self-imposed Debt Limit of Total Public debt to GDP ratio of 25% (up to 2020) and far below the World Bank’s debt sustainability threshold of 56% for Nigeria and other peer countries. “With regard to the 2019 fiscal year, the estimated budget deficit is N186 trillion and it will largely be financed through borrowing as it has been the tradition, while additional financing of N172 billion will be derived from privatisation proceeds and N556.02 billion from loans secured for specific development projects.” The committee, however, urged the federal government to consider reducing the granting of waivers and exemptions while ensuring that the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) personnel are at all oil terminals for accountability, just as the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) should consider increasing Tax on luxury goods and services. On social intervention strategies, the  Committee adopted the N500 billion special intervention fund  and sought the cooperation of relevant committees in the National Assembly and other relevant government agencies in ensuring that the funds are judiciously utilised to achieve  tangible impact on the Nigerian people. The committee chairman, Sen John Enoh, said that “government remains committed to minimizing and reducing unemployment figures, alleviating and eradicating poverty and increasing the general wellbeing of ordinary Nigerians. It is on this note that several initiatives are explored and adopted to aid in creating more jobs particularly through special intervention programmes that span all geo-political zones of the country. “Investing in people is one of the cardinal and core objectives of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and all necessary steps are taken to enhance human capital development. The proposed N350 billion special interventions (Recurrent) and N150 billion special interventions (Capital) will provide necessary funding for the financing and continuity of key government intervention programmes.” Members of the Senate Committee on Finance that worked on the report that was adopted by the Senate are Sen John Owan Enoh, chairman, and Sen Umaru I. Kurfi, vice chairman. Others are: Sen Usman B. Nafada, Sen Joshua C. Dariye, Sen Hope Uzodinma,  Sen. Adeola 0. Solomon,  Sen Mustapha M Sani, Sen Yahaya A. Abdullahi, Sen Nelson A Effiong, Sen Yusuf A Yusuf, Sen Sabo Mohammed and Sen Victor Umeh. Senate Passes Police Trust Fund Bill, 3 Others Meanwhile, the Senate yesterday passed the Nigerian Police Trust Fund Bill (HB 1583) and three others which are to be forwarded to president Muhammadu Buhari for assent. Other bills passed by the Senate are: the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS) Abuja bill, 2019 (HB1583), Harmonised Retirement Age for Teachers in Nigeria Bill, 2019 (HB 1554), and Animal Disease Control Act (Repeal & Re-enactment) Bill, 2019 (HB 1268). Last week, the president of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, had promised the  Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, that the Senate would fast-track its work on both the Police Trust Fund Bill and the Police Reform Bill. Reacting to the Senate’s passage of the Bill, Saraki said: “By passing this bill, we will be creating big strides towards providing and improving security and the policing in our country. “One of the major concerns has always been the issue of funding. We believe that this bill will provide the funding needed for training and recruitment. “I am confident that by the time we lay the report on the Police Reform Bill, we would have gone a long way in moving the police in the right direction,” Saraki said, adding that when  these police bills become laws, they would help to relieve the burden on the military, so that it can focus on its constitutional responsibility. The Police Trust Fund Bill, which was initially passed by the House of Representatives, aims to provide a legal framework for the management and control of the special intervention funds established under the Act for the training of personnel of the Nigeria Police Force. The Trust Fund will also be utilised to enhance the skills of the personnel of the Police, in order to ensure their efficiency, overall performance, and constant improvement while they perform their duties. In addition to this, the Trust Fund will be used to ensure that the Nigeria Police Force has the necessary operational equipment, instructional materials, police stations and living quarters.