As part of Nigerian Army’s Corporate Social Responsibility, the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai has approved the construction of a bridge across Osun river to boost the economic prosperity  of communities in Iwo, Ayedire, Ede North and Ede South local governments of the state. Speaking shortly after the inspection of the construction site by a 12-member team of military engineers drawn from Force headquarters and Army Engineering Regiment Ede, Osun State, His Royal Majesty, Olowu of Kuta, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama noted that the kind gesture is a fulfillment of over 70 years yearnings of Ede, Kuta, Ile-Ogbo, Oke-Osun, Olupona, Iwo communities. Flanked by traditional rulers of the benefiting communities at Kuta, Oba Oyelude noted that the bridge when constructed will boost the economy of the area. The monarch, who disclosed that he had sent a compassionate appeal on behalf of the people of the two communities to the Nigeria Army, stated that the visit of the Engineers from the military zone is a good omen. “If the bridge is done, the economic impact cannot be over-emphasized. The IGR of the state will also improve because human and goods would be moved easily. “Our forefathers that started the bridge knew the economic importance before embarking on contributions among themselves. We thank the Chief of Army Staff for the move to complete the bridge. Military are not only fighting insurgency, they are opening up access roads.” According to him, being an agrarian community, farmers have had to contend with untoward hardship in the transportation of farm produce, adding that the resultant effect had forced up prices of farm produce. He showered encomium on General Buratai for the kind gesture, saying that the communities and Osun State in general will ever be grateful to him. Speaking, the Timi of Ede land, His Royal Majesty, Oba Munirudeen Adesola Lawal, lauded the army for the step to make ‘unforgettable’ history in the communities. He assured that the bridge would not cause any conflict between the two towns, stressing that it would further promote cordial relationship between them. The monarch who explained that the bridge has been the boundary for Ede and Kuta, noted that it would be impossible to have land dispute because there is no land to fight over. He lauded Olowu Kuta for using the relationship he enjoyed with the army chief to facilitate development that would be of benefit to the coming generation.