YIAGA AFRICA has conducted an extensive reflection session to assess the successes and challenges in its deployment of the Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT) methodology for the 2019 elections LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that YIAGA AFRICA through its Watching the Vote (WTV) project deployed 3,906 observers across all Local Government areas in Nigeria for the 2019 Presidential elections using the PVT. This is even as the Group said the assessment was in a bid to improve ahead of the Bayelsa and Kogi Governorship elections coming up November 2019. In a statement signed by YIAGA AFRICA’s Media Officer, Moshood Isah it stated that “prior to the elections YIAGA AFRICA had built a structure of 48 State Focal Points (SFPs) across all 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with states like Kano, Lagos, Rivers, Anambra, Borno, Katsina and Kaduna State having more than one SFP due to its geography and population”. “WTV recruited SFPs were in charge of the project in the state as they recruited Local Government Areas Supervisors in every LGA in Nigeria while also representing the project in election observation related activities in their states. “The LGA Supervisors on the other hand recruited polling unit observers from sampled polling units with the support and coordination of the State Focal Points in the state. Thus the SFPs are in a position to assess the quality of PVT deployment in the state ranging from quality of observers and whether they have been recruited from the right polling units”. The statement added that during the post-election debrief session across all Geopolitical zones in Nigeria; SFPs revealed that the WTV project helped to build the capacity of citizens and provided an opportunity for them to participate in the process of entrenching free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria. “Another major success recorded by the WTV Project during the 2019 elections was that despite the threat to violence in some areas, WTV observers successfully deployed to sampled polling units without major hitches. The statement added that WTV observers were mostly seen as ambassadors of credible elections in their communities” it said . It added that the Also the project built on its credibility as election stakeholders, like electoral commission, Nigerian Police other security agencies, traditional and religious leaders and other election stakeholders further reaffirmed their confidence in the WTV election observation project. In the words of Oyo State, Resident Electoral Commissioner, Barrister Mutiu Agboke “WTV will always gain recognition because they have integrity, call me for any of your activity and my team I will attend”. National Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Oyo, Dr John Oyedokun Adewoye also said YIAGA AFRICA WTV project is a well-recognized institution in electoral matters and assured the support of the NSCDC throughout Oyo State. Stating some of its challenges, the WTV project revealed that while the WTV successfully deployed observers to sampled polling units, getting quality non-partisan citizens was a herculean task especially in riverine communities, clustered localities and settings with low literacy level. Despite these challenges, coupled with insurgency in the North East the team leveraged on existing relationship with members of community and opinion leaders to make sure deployment was 100% on Election Day. We hereby appreciate the support of election stakeholders like the Independent National Electoral Commission, Nigerian Police, NSCDC, Traditional and religious leaders, the Nigerian Union of journalists and most importantly our observers for a successful deployment of the PVT during the 2019 elections