A Group of Seventeen Civil Society Organizations under the aegis of Impart Africa, has called on the Federal Government to place the Federal Fire Service on either the Exclusive or Concurrent List in the Next Level dispensation in order to strengthen the administrative and operational capacity of the Agency. The Group further lauded the Four-Point Agenda and vision of the New Controller General of the Federal Fire Service Dr. Liman Alhaji Ibrahim, noting that his appointment is ‘a round peg in a round hole’ especially as the Federal Government takes Nigeria to the Next Level of Strengthened National Security and Safety to which Fire disaster poses a great threat. Addressing news men in Abuja today shortly after the Groups Stakeholders Meeting, the Country Director of IMPART AFRICA, Dr. Adams Otakwu disclosed that the Federal Fire Service unlike other critical Agencies of Government is neither on the exclusive nor concurrent list of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Dr. Otakwu maintained that the situation has technically encumbered the Agency from optimizing its operational efficiency. He said “…Fire-fighting Agencies in many developed economies like the UK, US, Singapore, Malaysia and even in some third world countries have gained credible statutory recognitions, enabling them to discharge their constitutional roles without let and hinderances. The situation we have in Nigeria, renders the Federal Fire Service incapacitated as a ‘weeping child’ or even a ‘bastard’. We appreciate the metamorphosis of the Agency since its establishment by an Act of Parliament in 1963 to the composition that we have today, and believe that if our advocacy is implemented, the Agency will be able to amend its Act, strengthen her operational efficiency, enforce regulations and seal up non-compliant premises and better coordinate responses to emergencies”. While commending the entire command structure and hierarchy of the Federal Fire Service for their professionalism as well as thanking the Federal Government for the immense support for the Agency, the Group called on the general public to cooperate with the Agency as first responders in times of emergencies rather than obstruct and attack their personnel as experienced recently in some parts of the country. The Group finally disclosed the plan by IMPART AFRICA to organize the West African Fire Conference (WAFIC) in Nigeria this year. Dr. Otakwu said the conference will be organized in collaboration with the Federal Fire Service and would avail participants further opportunity to undertake Training with the National Fire Academy. He said the choice of Nigeria to host the event is basically because of her big brother role on the continent as well as the vision of the Controller General of the Federal Fire Service – Dr. Liman to reposition the Agency to be a reference for other Fire Fighting Agencies in Africa. He said details of the Conference will be unveiled as the event draws closer.