There are indications of intense disagreement between senators and some members of the House of Representatives over plans to override President Muhammadu Buhari’s veto on two bills he declined assent. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that a technical committee set up by the Senate and chaired by Sen David Umaru (APC, Niger East) to look into the matter of bills rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari and recommend the way forward had advised the National Assembly to override the president. Of the 17 bills recently rejected by the president, the Senator Umaru-led committee agreed that the president had cogent reasons to decline assent to some of the bills, but that the Senate needed to override him  on two of the bills. Consequently, the senators resolved to override the president on the two bills, and to repackage and send back to him 11 of the 17 bills he had returned to them, for his assent. They also resolved to withdraw four bills because of the observations raised by the president. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the two bills the senators want to override the president on are: The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 28) Bill, 2018, and the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) Amendment Bill, 2018. The 11 bills which they agreed to repackage and send to the president based on his observations are: The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 8) Bill, 2018; The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 15) Bill, 2018; The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 199 (Fourth Alteration, No 20) Bill, 2018; Others are: The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 22) Bill, 2018; The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 24) Bill, 2018; National Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (Establishment) Bill, 2018; The Stamp Duties Amendment) Bill, 2018; The Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, 2018; National Research and Innovation Council Bill, 2018; National Agricultural Seeds Council Bill, 2018; and the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (Amendment), Bill, 2018. The four bills withdrawn by lawmakers include: The Chartered Institute of Entrepreneurship (Establishment) Bill, 2018; The Subsidy Legislation (Legislative Scrutiny) Bill, 2018; The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency Amendment Bill, 2018; and The Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences (Amendment) Bill, 2018. It has, however, been gathered that the senators’ move to override the president’s veto on the two bills has become contentious  as some of them are unsure over whether those pushing for it can get the required number of votes to override the president. LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt the presidency had started intense lobbying to convince lawmakers against the move, It was also revealed that the presidency’s strategy was to ensure that, in the event the senators go ahead with their threat, it would provide every available information to convince some of the lawmakers that the president’s action was in order. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that all the bills that were rejected or returned by the president fall within the stipulated time limit of 30 days within which the president is expected to assent or withhold assent. It was gathered that the lawmakers want to use their powers as contained in section 58(5) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, which provides that, “Where the president withholds his assent and the bill is again passed by each house by two-thirds majority, the bill shall become law and the assent of the president shall not be required.” Some of the lawmakers, especially those in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), it was gathered, are against the move to override the president’s veto on the bills. LEADERSHIP Sunday checks revealed that most of the senators who might want to override the president’s veto may not be present at the chamber because they are still busy with post-election litigations and may not always be present. “Let me tell you, as it stands now, they can’t get the required number because this 8th Assembly is winding up and a lot of them might not want to offend the president,” a lawmaker who didn’t want his name mentioned said, adding that APC lawmakers in both chambers would resist any move to override the president’s veto on the two bills. The chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, said the committee did a thorough job and that the Senate acknowledged the president’s reasons for declining assent to some of the bills. Sabi however expressed concern over whether the National Assembly will get the required number to override the president. He said, “Veto means that we should gather two-thirds majority, which means that both the Senate and the House of Representatives must team up to override the president’s veto. “So, what we are saying now is that if you look at the life of this Assembly, there are things that are practically impossible to do because we are winding down. “Why should you go and start something you can’t complete. Are you even sure that you will get everybody to come so that you can get the required number given what we are having now. “But what we are saying is that the ones that we have to reintroduce would be done. We are amending those bills particularly to reflect some of the observations made by the president,” the Senate spokesman said. But in an interview with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the presidential liaison officer to the National Assembly, Sen Ita Enang, said the senators agreed with the president on 17 bills. “The Senators said the president was right in 17 bills he declined assent. On the other ones, not that the senators did not agree with the president, but when it comes to constitutional amendment, we will consult before they take a decision. “We appreciate them on the technical committee that was set up. We pray that they should give the mandate of appraising the same bills not assented to by the president because we are not quarrelling with them,” Enang said. The presidential adviser added that notwithstanding the efforts of the lawmakers at exercising their constitutional mandate, the president must also do the needful. “Let me correct an impression here: the non-assent to the bills is not because of a feud with the National Assembly,” Enang said, even as he gave kudos to the 8th Assembly for passing the highest number of bills in the history of the country. “This Senate turned out a lot of bills more than any other Assembly. They have tripled the bills passed by the previous lawmakers and the president also assented to the majority of bills ever passed by any president. “There are reasons why the president did not sign these bills and he has explicitly explained. For example, the demand by lawmakers for Ajaokuta to be funded from the excess crude account was wrong. The company should be funded by the budget. “The excess crude account belongs to the three tiers of government, and until money is shared to the local government, states and the FCT Area Councils, then the federal government will now know what belongs to it. Accessing  Excess Crude Account is subject to approval by the Council of State. And again, we don’t do budget estimates in dollars,” Enang said. Speaking on Ajaokuta Steel Company Bill, he said the lawmakers should have appropriated the money for the resuscitation of the steel  company in the budget with consultation with Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Steel Development, Budget and National Planning offices. “You don’t do budget in dollars. The approval of $1billion to buy arms was approved by the governors and the balance is yet to be appreciated,” Enang said,  while explaining the difference between the previous approval to fight insecurity and the one on Ajaokuta Steel Company. Enang further stated  that the presidency was pleased with the action taken by the lawmakers, but would only give its response to the issue when both chambers of the National Assembly had taken a common position. “They have agreed 90 percent with the president. The present issue is in the Senate alone. The House of Representatives will also take a stand. It is only when they have a harmonised position that we will also have a response,” Enang added.