Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has commended the Supreme Court verdict in suit filed by former governor, Chief Segun Oni, challenging his eligibility to contest the July 14, 2018 governorship election in the state. Fayemi who said that the victory will afford the state the opportunity to move forward and end all contentions about his emergence expressed hope that Chief Oni will see ‘it as a cue to play a more active role in the party.’ The apex court judgement, according to him, showed that he duly resigned in line with the constitutional provision and that the primaries of the party which produced him as All Progressives Congress governorship candidate in Ekiti State in 2018 which was free, fair and credible. He spoke on Wednesday in Ado Ekiti during the swearing in ceremony of the state new Head of Service, Mr Ayodeji Ajayi, shortly after the Supreme Court in Abuja dismissed Oni’s appeal against his emergence. He said, “Ekiti must move forward. Enough of these distractions. Enough of these recriminations over matters that ought not go to court. “It is very clear that I resigned in accordance with the constitution of the land and that the shenanigans that culminated in the White Paper that said Fayemi should not serve in public office have been dealt with in the appropriate law courts as the thrash that it was at the time. “It also shows clearly that the primaries that took place in Ekiti for anyone who is objective enough, the cleanest, the fairest and most credible primaries that ever has taken place in the history of electioneering in Nigeria”. While stating that Oni was not wrong to have approached the law court since he felt strongly about a position, said: “Now that the highest court in the land has pronounced definitely on it, I hope he would see it as a cue to play a more active role in the party. “Oni, to the best of my knowledge, remains a member of the APC. I don’t believe he has decided to remove himself from the party. But I think this would not lead to another round of recriminations and attacks,” Fayemi said. Fayemi who said that his government is committed to transparency in governance charged the new HoS to be upright and provide right leadership for the civil service. “We will not tolerate any breach of the accord we have signed with Ekiti people who voted us into office. Do your best to justify the confidence reposed in you to restore our values and move the state forward.” Responding, Ajayi who said he was humbled by the appointment and the confidence reposed in him by the government promised to provide strong leadership and direction to the state civil service. “I will work assiduously with everyone to better the system and not to deviate from the tenets of the service and work towards reclaiming the land and restoring values of the state,” he said. 