The Operation Sharandaji unit of Nigeria Army operating in Zamfara state said in its continued effort towards restoring peace to areas bedeviled by banditry activities, killed no fewer than 35 bandits, arrested 18 and rescued 40 innocent persons abducted by these bandits. The army in a statement signed by Major Clement Abiade, Acting Force Information Officer, Operation Sharandaji and issued to newsmen in Sokoto, the army said their intensified efforts is also been supported by the Ex Harbin Kinsman 111 activities. Major Abiade said the new operation is pushing deep into the hitherto hidden enclaves of the bandits hence making them easy preys. The statement by Major Abiade read in brief, “In continuation with operations designed to mitigate banditry activities in Zamfara and other contiguous States, troops of Operation SHARAN DAJI have been dominating the Area of Operation with aggressive fighting patrols. Troops also conduct day and night patrols deep into the forest areas to deny the bandits freedom of action, while building the confidence of the local population. “The intensity and redoubled efforts in the conduct of these military activities is being complemented by EX HARBIN KUNAMA III which commenced on 1 April 2019. These operations have achieved tremendous successes leading to the recovery of weapons, ammunitions and rustled animals in various parts of OPSD AOR. During the period, the Air Component of operation SHARAN DAJI carried out several Air strikes around Kagara, Gando, Fankama, Fete and Dumburum Forests. “These Forests provide sanctuaries and hideouts where kidnapped victims are often hidden. Please note that air strikes are precision activities designed to avoid collateral damage. “The troops also had several encounters with bandits during the period in focus and neutralized 35 bandits.  A total of 18 suspected bandits informants, rustlers, kidnappers and logistics suppliers were arrested including one Muhammed Iso, a notorious kidnapper who was intercepted in Niger Republic through collaboration with the security forces in the country. “The bandit hails from Naagwalam in Katsina State and confessed to being a member of a 5 man syndicate responsible for kidnapping and highway robbery in Batsari and Jibiya axis”. He also divulged that no fewer than 40 abductees consisting of men, women and children from communities in Zamfara State were rescued during the operation, adding that 4 AK47 rifles, 2 locally made pump action rifles, 17 rounds of 7.62mm (Special) ammunitions and 20 cartridges, 10 Motorcycles, 94 rustled animals, 2 mobile phones as well as assorted charms  and 2 handsets were recovered during the operation. Major Abiade however added that the arrested suspects have been handed over to the appropriate agencies for further investigation and prosecution.