The Action Congress Party (ACP) and its governorship candidate in Rivers State, Victor Fingesi, has dragged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Rivers State  Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to the Rivers State Election Petitions Tribunal over the outcome of the governorship election in the state. INEC had declared Wike, who is also the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner of the March 9, 2019 election. Addressing newsmen in Port Harcourt yesterday, ACP governorship candidate in the state, Fingesi, said the people of the state were not happy with INEC over the return of Wike as the governor-elect. He wondered why the electoral umpire would turn round and return Wike as the governor-elect when it had earlier said it suspended the electoral process in the state due to widespread irregularities and violence. The ACP governorship hopeful said: “We have invited you to this press briefing to inform Rivers people that we have gone to the election tribunal on the 18th of April, 2019 and that we have dragged the INEC, Chief  Ezenwo Nyesom WIKE and PDP to the tribunal. “We know that a lot of Rivers people and other stakeholders are not happy with INEC and the return of Chief Nyesom Wike as the governor- elect, which we are challenging as not substantially in compliance with the electoral Act”. “We are asking the Tribunal to nullify the election and order for fresh election. This is because, anybody who is the governor in a democratic dispensation carries the sacred mandate of the people”. “No matter the expediency, he must have a majority of lawful votes and the process and procedure must comply to the laws of our land”. “No attempt should be made in any guise to turn election exercise as merely filling a vacuum and impose anybody on Rivers people as governor”. “Our stand on this matter is even corroborated by a press statement from INEC that the election was marred by wide spread irregularities and we wonder why INEC will consequently volte-face and return Chief Nyesom Wike as the governor in such an election”. “We shall pursue the matter to its logical conclusion even to the highest Court of the land. We enjoin Rivers people to remain calm and wait for the outcome of the petition”, he concluded.