Abuja natives, under the auspices of Coalition of Original FCT Indigenes, took their protest against alleged land encroachment by army to the FCTA secretariat where they blocked the entrance to the office of the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, for several hours yesterday. The leader of the group who is chairman of FCT Koro Association, Comrade Adamu Isiaku, told LEADERSHIP that the protest was meant to make the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and the federal government respond to the last week killing of their brother, by men of the Nigerian army over  a piece of land allegedly taken over by the Nigerian army in Tunga Maje community of Gwagwalada area council. Isiaku added that the protest was equally provoked by the activities of men of the Nigerian army, who are presently occupying parts of their land and are destroying crops, belonging to the original indigenes of the community. “The protest is meant to make the federal government and the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCT), to respond to the killing of our brother last week, by the army over the matter. We are also worried that as we speak, members of the Nigerian military are presently occupying the land and are destroying our crops in our ancestral land.” He stated that the protesters are at the FCT Minister’s Gate, so that he (the minister) can address them on a lasting solution to the problem and for him to order the military to suspend their work and remove their properties from their land, pending the outcome of ongoing negotiations. LEADERSHIP gathered that the protesters were drawn from  communities of Giri, Iddo, Anagana, Tunga maje, Takuru, Dakwu, Leyon-Zuba, Narra and other communities, that are laying claim to the land.  However, the FCT permanent secretary, Sir Christian Chinyeaka Ohaa, who addressed the leaders of the group during a meeting, appealed to both parties to give peace a chance and to allow the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) continue in its efforts towards a permanent solution to the problem.  Ohaa revealed that the administration was on top of the situation, doing its best and meeting with all stakeholders with a view to ensuring a comprehensive solution was reached on the matter.  “Officials of the FCT Administration, myself, permanent secretary for the Ministry of Defence and some army officials have been meeting since last week to resolve this problem. So we are doing our best to make sure that we resolve this matter comprehensively.  We have also met with security agencies. So it is wrong to say that we are doing nothing. Our directors were there, representing and informing us directly of what was happening on ground and we have continued to carry out extensive consultations to make permanent peace.  “Our doors are always open to consultations with the original inhabitants towards moving the FCT forward. It could have been better if you had come with your people to consult with us on how to solve this matter. It is not fair that you brought in your people and blocked the entrance gate to the secretariat. If we all use force, society will not know peace and will not have order.”   