Forty-six days to the inauguration of their administration on May 29, 2019, some state governors-elect have kicked against the last-minute awards of contracts and massive appointment of top officials and intermediate civil servants by the outgoing governors. The worried incoming governors alleged that since the conclusion of the governorship elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) the incumbent state executives have resorted to awarding contracts for projects that were not captured in the 2019 budgets, appointing new officials and promoting others without adequate provisions for their salaries. Consequently, the governors-elect declared that the incumbent governors, some who were defeated at the polls or failed in their bid to plant their political surrogates in office, were out to set booby traps for them and cripple their administration from inception. In their reactions, the incumbent governors maintained that they were still in office and that no law forbids them from performing their statutory roles. They, therefore, asked the incoming governors to wait for their turn and be ready to inherit their assets and liabilities because government is a continuum. Among the governors and governors-elect involved in these altercations are Adamawa State governor Jibrilla Mohammed Bindow and the incoming governor, Alhaji Ahmadu Fintiri; Owelle Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and the governor-elect, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha; governor Mohammed Abubakar of Bauchi State and his would-be successor, Senator Bala Mohammed; governor Abiola Ajimobi and the governor-elect, Seyi Makinde, and governor Ibikunle Amosun and the governor-elect, Dapo Abiodun. The governors-elect lamented that their predecessors were not just leaving behind empty treasuries, huge debts, salary and pensions arrears, and other liabilities were already in stock for them. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the scenario was more prevalent in states where the opposition parties won the governorship elections. It was further learnt that some of the outgoing governors were also giving out luxury cars and houses as parting gifts to their appointees and associates. In Adamawa State, for instance, Fintiri cautioned the Bindow administration against what he described as “last-minute employment and award of bogus contracts.” His warning came following the announcement by the commissioner for Education, Julius Kadala, that the state government was set to issue employment letters to 1,540 new post-primary school teachers whose recruitment had been concluded. But in a swift reaction, the commissioner said: “The employment of these new teachers cannot be categorised as a last-minute action because the selection process began in July 2018.” Kadala said that his ministry had highlighted a manpower deficit of over 5,000 secondary schools teachers but only got the governor’s approval for 1,540 teachers because of the state government’s lean resources But Fintiri in a statement issued by his media aide, Mr. Solomon Kumangar, warned banks not to give “arbitrary loans” to the outgoing government The governor-elect urged the Bindow administration to show statesmanship in its action by not making things difficult for his incoming administration. Kumangar said: “The governor-elect wants all unnecessary expenditures and last-minute employment, not done in the past four years, halted forthwith. Similarly, all last-minute awards of bogus contracts without following due process should stop. Adamawa belongs to all and any action to the contrary would not be condoned. “Banking institutions are hereby cautioned against giving arbitrary loans or overdrafts at this time as this will be at their own risk. Civil servants who get involved in shoddy transactions, aiding and abetting fraud will have themselves to blame if discovered,” he warned. The situation is not different in Bauchi State, where Senator Mohammed, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) defeated the incumbent All Progressives Congress (APC) governor Abubakar. Bala Mohammed accused Abubakar of planning to award spurious contracts worth N4 billion and recruit 8, 000 teachers before leaving office on May 29. He said: “While we do not question the authority of the present administration to award contracts and make financial transactions for the day-to-day running of the government, it beats the imagination that instead of focusing on closing its books, the outgoing government has chosen the dishonourable option of emptying the treasury and over-burdening the people with enormous debts again.” The governor-elect noted that Abubakar sacked 2,000 traditional district heads when he assumed office in 2015 on the ground that the state had financial problems and wondered why he would employ new staff at the expiration of his tenure. Bala Mohammed also alleged that state assets were currently being carted away by officials of the outgoing government and warned that his administration would investigate capital inventory and forensic audit of all the financial transactions of the Abubakar government. Governor Abubakar however said that his administration had not engaged in any last-minute award of contracts. Through the commissioner for Information, Ibrahim Sade, the governor said yesterday that the allegations by Bala Mohammed were false. Sade said that though no fresh contracts had been awarded, there were ongoing multi-million naira roads and other projects across the state. Similarly, the Bauchi State Universal Basic Education Board (BASUBEB) spokesman, Mohammed Shehu Abdullahi, dismissed the allegations of last-minute award of contact by the board. He said that the N4 billion contract slated for award was a 2017/2018 UBEC/SUBEB joint intervention project. In Imo State, the battle between Okorocha and Ihedioha, which began shortly after INEC announced the former as the governor-elect, has assumed a worse dimension. Okorocha, who was accused withdrawing the sum of N17 billion from the bank for inexplicable reasons, denied the claims and accused Ihedioha of incompetence and misinforming the people of the state about his activities. The first shot at Okorocha’s administration was fired by the state chairman of PDP, Hon. Charles Ezekwem, who told newsmen that the state government had resorted to looting and sale of government properties, mostly vehicles. He said: “We have it on good authority that governor Rochas Okorocha withdrew the sum of N17 billion belonging to the state government from the bank and has begun to auction some official vehicles to sabotage the incoming PDP administration. The Ihedioha camp added that it was aware that the appointment letters of some newly-engaged workers had been backdated warned that such actions of the governor would be reversed by the administration of Ihedioha. In an advertorials published during the week, the state government invited qualified persons to apply for the positions of the vice chancellor, registrar and rector for the Imo State University of Agriculture, Umuagwo and the state polytechnic, respectively. Ezekwem added that “PDP further notes that just less than two months to the end of Governor Rochas Okorocha’s administration, he has employed more workers than he had ever done during the eight years he wasted as the governor of Imo State. “Worst still, he employs and back-dates letters of employments given to individuals who hitherto have no service to render to the state Ministries, Agencies and Departments (MDAs). The governor, who countered the allegations through his chief press secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, advised the people of Imo to ignore the governor-elect’s whenever he “comes up with such gimmicks. “The guy is just smart politically but political smartness is different from having the capacity for leadership or governance,” he said. Okorocha challenged Ihedioha to mention how the alleged N17 billion withdrawal was made and where in the state as he said: “Where in Imo State with meagre federal allocation and Internally Generated Revenue can one see N17 billion to withdraw? He is coming to be governor with the only income he made at the National Assembly because, prior to his going to the National Assembly, he never did any paid job and is trying now to blackmail a man adjudged to be the highest property owner both in Owerri and in Abuja several years before becoming a governor.” In Oyo State, Ajimobi and his would-be successor, Makinde are also on the warpath over contract awards and appointments of more workers two months to the end of the administration. One of the disputed contracts is the purchase of 33 excavators by the state government to boost agricultural production, safety and rescue operations, as well as urban renewal across the 33 local government areas and 35 local council development areas. The governor said that the purchase of the equipment was to reinforce his earlier stance that he would sustain the administration’s developmental strides until May 28 when his tenure would end. He explained that it was one of the excavators that was deployed for rescue operations during the recent building collapse in Molete area of Ibadan, the state capital, which made it possible to bring out all those trapped in the ruins alive. Also, recently the governor appointed education secretaries, which did not go down well with the incoming administration. But Makinde (governor-elect) has said that he would carry out a radical review of all contracts awarded in the wake of the March 9 gubernatorial election and others that are linked to it. Makinde in a statement signed by Prince Dotun Oyelade, said that events of the past two weeks have shown characteristics of targeted contract awards that were compiled in haste and randomly awarded to empty government purse before the May 29 swearing-in date. According to him, there will be radical review of all contracts awarded by the APC-led administration in the state from March. The statement said that while the government remains in place till May 28, awarding a N30 billion new set of contracts in one day as was the case during last Wednesdays’ executive meeting was curious and an aberration, especially when debts, as old as 2011 were left unpaid. He pointed out that information from civil servants who have the interest of the state at heart suggested a grand plan to disrupt the smooth take off of the incoming administration by mopping up all available funds. Dapo (governor-elect) has also kicked against governor’s Amosun last-minute jamboree as he appointed 18 new permanent secretaries from at a go. He also kicked against Amosun’s request for fresh loans and bank overdrafts. He warned financial institutions against granting such requests, stressing that his administration would not honour them. Govs’ Actions Fraudulent – Lawyers, CSOs Meanwhile, lawyers and some civil society organisations (CSOs) have described the actions of the governors as malicious and intended to create problems for their successors. Chief Mike Ahamba (SAN) said that the outgoing governors should bear in mind that the incoming governors reserve the right not to confirm the appointments being made and contracts awarded. According to him, those who are being employed now will be under probation by the time the new government will come in and they stand to lose their employment depending on the findings of the new government concerning their engagement. He said: ‘’They should know that the new government has the right not to confirm the appointment of those under probations. When governor Rocha’s Okorocha came into power, he sacked about 10,000 workers. It is clear now that the appointments being made and the contracts being awarded are out of malice. ‘’They should also know that a searchlight is being beamed on them by anti-graft agencies. The whole thing is about malice and intended to create problems for the new administration,’’ he stated. Another lawyer, Mr. Kayode Ajulo, argued that no law stops the governors from awarding contracts or making appointments till their last day in office. He said: ‘’Every governor has a four-year tenure of two terms if he re-elected, except he resigns, dies or impeached. Until May 29, he is empowered by law to perform the duties and responsibilities of a governor; so, it is not out of place if he awards contracts or makes appointments, as long as it is in the interest of the state. ‘’That is the reason why most of the time when a successor comes in, he will set up a committee to look at what has been done and decides whether to ratify or nullify it,’’ he said. A Kaduna-based lawyer, Adekunle Adio, urged the outgoing governors to be careful so as not to put themselves in trouble with last-minute contracts and appointments. He said that they should understand that the eagle eyes of the anti-graft agencies will be on them. ‘’Some of them should not further compound the cases they have with the anti-graft agencies by awarding contracts that may land them in trouble,” he warned. In his reaction, a senior legal practitioner based in Abuja, Barr. Alasa Ismaila, said: “Although government is one and a continuum, it’s pre-emptive and smack of fraud to be issuing contracts at the verge of a governor’s end of tenure. “Both the issuer and beneficiary are wrong and are at risk. The succeeding governor is at liberty to cancel or review such contracts of dubious origin and intention, as no law is violated,” he said. In his contributions, Barr. Mukhtar Abanika, said: “it is only when we begin to call people to account and to defend their past actions or deeds that such recklessness will cease. No court of law will necessarily compel the incumbent to bear such a burden in the practical sense of it.” Mr. Ezenwa Nwagwu, the convener of Say No Campaign Nigeria, said: “It’s a mix of greed, impunity, and subterfuge.  In many cases, they are the beneficiaries of the contracts using fronts. The jobs are used as dubious settlement and patronage for cronies but more deleterious is the challenge of burdening the new government with debt and discrediting it should they sack those who have been engaged.” The executive director of the Civil Society Legislative and Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Awwal Musa Rafsanjan, said that weak legislation by state Houses of Assembly and absence of procurement laws in most states are responsible for the misnomer. He stated that CISLAC has been at the forefront of advocacy for procurement laws. “That is why we have been advocating for each state to ensure that they have public procurement laws. There must be procurement planning which will be backed by budgetary allocation. “But because of corruption, some people want to rush and give contracts that are not planned for and are not backed with any budgetary allocation. And because we have weak state assemblies, that cannot assert itself in terms of complying budget and programmes of government, some of these governors with their impunity decides to put serious burdens on incoming administration. “The only way to stop this is to have enabling laws backing programmes and policies of government and compliance ensured. With these, no outgoing governor will award outrageous contracts that are not backed by the procurement law,” he said. Awwal, however, urged anti-graft agencies to investigate the activities of the outgoing governors to uncover irregular practices. He said: “As it is, only the anti-corruption agencies can curb this practice. The ICPC and EFCC should question these governors immediately they leave office; this means that the media and civil society organisations must seriously monitor such outrageous award of contracts and irregular employment,” he added.