A massive land and air operations to flush out bandits in the North West zone has been launched by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) and the Nigeria Police Force. While the NAF yesterday launched ‘Operation Tsaftan Daji’ (Clean Forest) in Katsina State, the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, took the police “Operation Puff Adder” to Zamfara State. The two states and their neighbouring Kaduna State are the hotbeds of bandits’ activities in the North West region. “Operation Puff Adder” was launched in Kaduna last Friday by the IGP in the wake of renewed killings and other criminal activities in the state. The air officer commanding (AOC), Special Operations Command, Air Vice-Marshal Napoleon Bali, who launched “Operation Tsaftan Daji” in Katsina, said that it was drawn from NAF’s “Operation Diran Mikiya.” Bali explained that it was designed to fire up the existing ‘Operation Saharan Daji’ for the ground forces, as he said: “You are aware of what is going on in the North West; the security forces have been putting in their best. However, the bandits have been changing their tactics thereby killing and kidnapping innocent civilians. “The chief of air staff (CAS) decided that there is the need to get more air access in Katsina State so that the air planes will be able to reach areas where these bandits are hiding. We are going to dominate the air and simultaneously pound bandits’ hideouts to make it easier for our ground forces to go in and flush out bandits and criminals terrorising people,” he said. The AOC stated that the emphasis would be on the forests around Zamfara and neighbouring states. According to Bali, NAF has enough aircraft and other equipment to ensure the success of the operation. He said: “Our plan is to ensure that at the end of the operation, we have either eliminated or reduced those unnecessary and deliberate attacks on innocent civilians in those states. For the time being, we will be here until our aim is achieved.” On his part, the IGP, who led the police and other security forces to Sokoto and Zamfara States as part of the efforts to intensify their offensive against the bandits, said that he was in the states for “on-the-spot evaluation of operational and deployment strategies currently in place in both states.” While in the two states, Mohammed had a “one-on-one” interaction with officers and men on the ground. He was accompanied on the trip by the deputy inspector-general (DIG) Operations, Mr. Abdulmajid Ali. The Force public relations officer, Frank Mba, who spoke on the IGP’s trip, explained that “the visit, enabled the IGP conduct an on- the – spot evaluation of operational and deployment strategies currently in place in both states. It readily affords the IGP ample opportunity to have a ‘one-on-one’ interaction with officers and men on the ground. “This will, in addition to being a morale boosting undertaking, help to galvanise local support for the police and other security forces currently engaged in the ‘Operation Puff Adder.” To the officers and men of both commands, the IGP charged them to be on the offensive and take the battle to the bandits’ camp and ensure total reclamation and domination of all the public spaces occupied by them and bring them to justice. The IGP also held a town hall meeting in Gusau, the Zamfara state capital which was attended by top government officials: secretary to the state government (SGF), Prof. Abdullahi Muhammad, the chief of staff to the governor, Engr Abdullahi Abulkarim, traditional rulers, local government chairmen, farmers, Mityetti Allah, religious leaders amongst others. The IGP commiserated with the community members particularly those who lost their loved ones or incurred losses form the activities of the bandits. Adamu appealed to the people to support security agencies with human intelligence and any relevant information that could aid the success of the operation. The stakeholders commended the federal government for banning mining activities in the state. They requested for increased deployment of policemen in their communities and prayed that the members of the Civilian Joint Task Force be allowed to join the police in tackling the menace of armed bandits in their communities. The Emir of Anka, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmad, told the IGP that the number of police men in the state was not adequate to effectively secure the state. He explained that no local government area has up 150 policemen, adding that soldiers and police engaged in the operation were not doing their best. According to him, the crisis started as a mere farmers/Fulani clash but had turned to serious criminality. The IGP was also in Birnin Gwari local government area of Kaduna State where the stakeholders appealed to him to prevail on the federal government to extend the ban on mining activities to the council. The police boss announced the ban on mining activities in Zamfara to check banditry and kidnapping which have been on the rise in the state. A representative of the stakeholders, Mr Auwal Yunusa, told Adamu, who visited the council over the insecurity in the area, that the fight against the bandits and other criminals must be holistic and simultaneous. Adamu also later paid a condolence visit to the Emir of Birnin Gawri, Alhaji Zubairu Maigwari II in his palace on the April 6 killings by bandits in Kakanji village. PMB Condemns Renewed Violence In Kaduna, Others Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the recent violence in Kaduna State, which led to the death of 21 members of Adara community. In a statement issued by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, the president said that “these unfortunate deaths are the latest incidents between the Adara and Fulani peoples in the state, who have a long history of mistrust among themselves.” The president also condemned the resurgence of cult killings in Rivers State and ordered for increased community and law enforcement action against its escalation. President Buhari appealed for peace and decried the on-going culture of “an eye for an eye” that has fuelled a number of attacks and reprisal attacks, with the two communities at different times, suffering casualties in Kajuru and Kachia local governments in Kaduna State. Buhari urged the people of Kaduna and other Nigerians to refrain from comments in the traditional and social media, especially by those who have little knowledge of the history of the longstanding conflict. Such comments, he said, can fuel further conflicts in the area and between the two groups. He made a special appeal to traditional and religious leaders to be cautious with their comments on the conflict, insisting that whatever words they share publicly should not be inflammatory but be inspired by an interest in peace. President Buhari condoled with those who lost loved ones in the attacks, stressing that “the entire nation grieves with you. The Nigerian army and police are already in the area to ensure that peace and security are restored.” In response to reports of the resurgence of cultism leading to loss of lives in Rivers State, President Buhari called on law enforcement agencies to intensify their efforts to end the menace before it further escalates. Defence Minister Fingers Traditional Rulers In Zamfara Killings Also yesterday, the minister of Defence, Mohammad Mansur Dan-Ali, asserted that traditional rulers were helping bandits to perpetrate violence in Zamfara State by compromising military operations. Mansur said that the armed forces and other security agencies would explore every available means to deal with those sympathetic to the bandits, just as he assured the people that the government was addressing the remote and immediate causes of the crisis. In a statement issued by his aide, Col Tukur Gusau, the minister said that intelligence reports at the disposal of the ministry suggested a close collaboration between the activities of the bandits and illegal miners in the state. He said that the federal government’s ban on mining activities followed the advice of the Ministry of Defence that all mining activities in Zamfara and environs should be suspended. He said: “In spite of the concerted efforts of the armed forces and other security agencies, some unpatriotic persons including highly placed traditional rulers in the areas were identified as helping the bandits with intelligence to perpetuate their nefarious actions or to compromise military operations. “The Ministry of Defence, therefore, warns that any person or group of persons who choose to connive or sympathise with the bandits to perpetuate crime against the law-abiding citizens to henceforth retract their steps or face the full wrath of the law “The armed forces of Nigeria have been directed to deal decisively with anybody identified helping the bandits under whatever guise no matter how highly placed the person or persons may be,” he said PDP Tackles PMB Over “Festering” Insecurity Relatedly, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged that by every indication, the Buhari-led federal government had no solution to the festering security challenges in the country. The party stated this yesterday in Abuja while lamenting what it called the “escalated insecurity, particularly the killings, rising spate of kidnapping, banditry and acts of terrorism in various parts of the country, especially in the northern states.” The PDP said that it was heavily grieved by the pain, anguish and horror Nigerians have been subjected in the hands of marauders following the failure of the Buhari’s administration to provide adequate security in the country, despite the huge resources at its disposal. The party also tasked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to give account of the whereabouts of the political mercenaries it imported into the country from neighboring countries, particularly from Chad and Niger Republic during the build-up to the 2019 general elections. In a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said that its demand was predicated on fears in the public space of the possible involvement of the imported political thugs, who assisted the APC to unleash violence on Nigerians during the elections, in the heightened acts of banditry in the nation. “Nigerians could recall that the PDP had raised a red flag on the dangers of the heavy importation of unscreened aliens by the APC to involve in its presidential election campaign rallies. The PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians had expressed fears that such aliens could be used by unpatriotic elements to unbridle violent acts against Nigerians,” the statement added. The party lamented that the federal government had failed to exert enough commitment in protecting Nigerians and curb the bloodlettings and kidnapping of compatriots in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Kogi, Kaduna, Taraba, Adamawa, Plateau, Bauchi and other states. Influx Of Passengers On Abuja-Kaduna Rail Overwhelms Nigerian Railway Corporation In view of the increasing cases of armed robbery, kidnapping and killing on the Abuja-Kaduna Highway, there is an increase in demand for rail transport on the corridor leading to 400 per cent rise in the revenue of the corporation. The NRC deputy director of public relations, Mr. Mamood Yakub, said that the corporation can longer meet the upsurge in the demand for rail services by passengers prompting minister of Transportation,  Rotimi Amaechi, to direct that the two standard gauge locomotive engines earlier designated for operation of passenger train service at the Warri-Itakpe axis of standard gauge train service be moved to the Abuja-Kaduna axis. He also disclosed that some members of staff of the corporation allegedly involved in ticket racketeering had been arrested by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the police to face prosecution. At present, the corporation operates four trips daily to and from Abuja to Kaduna except on Wednesdays when it operates thrice due to maintenance. Yakub said that each of the first class and economy class coaches has capacity to convey 88 sitting passengers On the revenue performance of the Abuja-Kaduna passenger train service, the NRC managing director, Mr. Fidet Okhiria, said that the corporation generates N80 million monthly last year compared to N16 million generated monthly in 2017. He however said that the N80 million generated last year cannot meet the N100 million required as running cost.