A campaign group for the All progressive Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, the New Face,  has described as “distasteful ” and “vexatious” the comments by some politicians in the State that the Former Governor, Chief Timipre Sylva should not contest the forth coming November 2nd Governorship election in the State due to age. According to the New Face, led by a renowned youth leader and member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Brass Local Government Area of the State, Hon. Robert Desmond, the comment by Hon. Prey Aganaba that the former Governor, Chief Timipre Sylva disqualify himself for younger politicians is not only vexatious but a clear attempt to discredit the former governor, whom he said is roundly fit for any political position. Engr. Preye Aganaba, who is chieftain of APC in Bayelsa and member of the President Muhammad Buhari Campaign Council had in an interview with the Bayelsa office of the Silverbird Rhythm FM 94.7, advised Chief Timipre Sylva to shelve his ambition to become the next Governor of the Statevand support younger aspirants ahead of the November 2 gubernatorial election. But the New Face, in a statement signed by its Founder, Robert Desmond, faulted the position of Aganaba, insisting that “There is no doubt that Engr. Preye Aganaba has the right to vent his thought on critical political issues especially as they affect the party. “However, he should equally accept, in his heart, the fact that it is Chief Timipre Sylva’s constitutional right to join the governorship race, if he feels the need to.” “Sylva, who is still in his (early) fifties, is roundly fit, with the needed experience in governance, to take up the mantle of leadership and improve the lot of Bayelsans. “Sylva is a well-known lover and lifter of youth who will never stop relatively younger aspirants in the Bayelsa APC from contesting the governorship election. “I wish to advise Mr. Aganaba to stop his campaign of calumny against Sylva and concentrate on the alleged governorship ambition he is nursing, because he is no match for the former governor, any day and any time.” Desmond also lamented that it was unfortunate for Aganaba to link the slummy nature of Yenagoa to Sylva. “It would be recalled that Sylva, during his first tenure, completed the Peace Park, mounted street lights and also constructed tens of link roads as well as other basic infrastructures to beautify the capital city. “Let me therefore state unequivocally that myself and the entire New Face Family across the state would rally round Sylva if he decides to contest, because he has all what it takes to truly restore the state,” he disclosed.