BLESSING BATURE writes on the need to harness information and communication technology for economic growth of Nigeria and other African nations. Africa has a lot to learn from China especially in the area of poverty alleviation and economic development. Indeed, it is in appreciation of this that most African leaders have been according priority attention to the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). But it appears the world and not just Africa, has a lot to learn from the Chinese. “We want to learn from China how they brought 700 million people out of poverty,” said Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan in his first address to the nation after winning elections. The Chinese have indeed shown that poverty alleviation is an achievable target. In October 2016, when Chinese President Xi Jinping declared that poverty in China would be totally eradicated by 2020, he also announced that online services would play a bigger role in reducing poverty. He obviously understands that in this information age, with the help of information and communication technology (ICT), it is possible to push every initiative of the government, including poverty eradication. “Broadband China”, “Made in China” and “Internet Plus” are all ICT-based initiatives launched by the Chinese government in recent years. Zhao Houlin, secretary general of International Telecommunication Union (ITU), pointed out that China and Africa represent different stages on the same development path, and that cooperation between China and Africa is bound to scale new heights in ICT. He said that Africa remains in a primary stage of development with huge potential yet to be unleashed, similar to China’s trajectory decades ago. “China has largely alleviated poverty and emerged increasingly stronger with the adoption of groundbreaking measures since the launch of its reform and opening-up policy, with a rich history of experience to share with African countries,” said Houlin. Home to 60% of the world’s arable land, Africa has the potential to become the future global food supplier. Over the next two decades, Africa has a great opportunity to disrupt traditional paths to growth and prosperity through innovative approaches to science and technology. Currently, more and more African people have felt the tangible benefits of relations with China, and African leaders are recognizing the potential of cooperation. Among them, many have placed ICT infrastructure construction in a strategic position, setting specific near-term goals. According to Houlin, every 10-per cent increase in broadband penetration rate contributes to GDP growth by one or two per cent in developing countries. As many African countries are eagerly seeking self-reliance and independent development, they pin their hopes on a large number of African small and medium enterprises (SMEs), which have played a significant role in boosting ICT infrastructure construction. There is no contesting the fact that China has a wealth of experience in the use of ICTs by SMEs and can thus provide African enterprises with many opportunities for cooperation. Moving forward, China and Africa could further expand regional and multilateral cooperation in telecommunications, providing greater support for regional connectivity and inter-country exchange. Chinese government has also expressed its willingness to continue supporting Chinese telecommunication companies like Huawei, to closely work with African countries, to contribute to economic development, narrowing the digital divide, and improve the level of modernization of the nations. In addition, ICT cooperation between China and Africa has contributed to increase in employment, promotion of technology transfer and improvement of people’s livelihood in Africa. “The success of this disruption is dependent on the continent’s continued successful relationship with China. Advances in technology made by China present an opportunity for deployment and investment partnerships with African countries in a real way,” said Isaac Fokuo, Founder and Chairman of the Sino-Africa Centre of Excellence.