Spokesperson to the governor of Kogi State, Kingsley Fanwo, has accused the opposition of plans to assassinate him after exposing “the corruption that almost killed the state for 13 years.” Fanwo who disclosed this while reacting to the attack on his official car in Lokoja on Thursday said some people were not comfortable with the way he exposed their maladministration in the past. The director-general of media and publicity to the governor said, “It is unfortunate that those who accuse others of violence without proof are now after my life. I have touched their corrupt sore and they are responding violently. “I will remain unbroken and more committed to the task of reshaping Kogi by reporting government activities and rallying our people behind the truth as represented by the Governor Yahaya Bello Administration. “The unfortunate attack on my vehicle is a mark of cowardice by those who have lost the debate and are now resorting to violence. They told the world the governor has done nothing and now that we have told the world what the governor has been doing, now that the people have spoken on what government has done for them, they are now trying to rain terror on the purveyors of the good the GYB Administration has done”. Fanwo called on security agents to unravel the mystery behind the attack on him, especially as someone had already threatened violence. He said, “I will appreciate it if our law enforcement agents can look into the attack with the aim of bringing the perpetrators to book. A PDP leader had already threatened, on a national television last week, that they are ready for violence. And this week, violence was waged on me. “He should be held responsible if anything happens to me or any member of my family and even every member of the GYB Political Family”. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that Fanwo’s vehicle was attacked while his personal assistant, Timothy Aloko, was on his way back to Lokoja Township from Kabba Junction Area after attending a meeting. Aloko told journalists that he took the vehicle to the meeting with the aim of fuelling it on his way back ahead of a ceremonial engagement in Kogi West but that he was attacked on the way by gunmen who demanded Fanwo’s whereabouts and also shot at the vehicle.