Traditional rulers of the Igala stock have lauded the administration of Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, saying it has impacted positively  on the people of the state. The monarchs, who hail from Kogi East senatorial district, also described as reckless and ungodly, the rate of fake news being peddled by disgruntled elements to insult, discredit and smear the good image of Governor Bello. The royal fathers noted that such unwholesome actions were aimed at watering down the landmark achievements of the governor in the areas of security, infrastructure development and education. Speaking during a solidarity visit to the governor, the Ata Igala and president of Kogi State Council of Chiefs, HRH Michael Idakwo Ameh Oboni, cautioned youths who are misusing modern technology through the social media to insult persons at the helm of affairs to desist forthwith. “In Kogi State today, we can now sleep with two eyes closed. Someone is responsible for it, and that should not be taken for granted,” the first class royal father said. Also speaking, the Ejeh of Dekina, Alhaji Usman Obaje, commended Governor Bello for the prevailing peace in troubled spots in Kogi East and the state in general. He further noted that the governor had demystified the ethnic division that formerly existed between the trio of Igala, Ebira and Okun ethnic groups. “You have demonstrated uncommon liberality in the way you have interacted with the ethnic groups in the state. That, in itself, has set the pace for the much desired ethnic unity in the state”, Obaje said. On his part, the traditional ruler of Anyigba, Shuaibu Okolo, said the fake videos on social media are the handiwork of desperate politicians who do not have anything to offer but are at the same time jittery at the governor’s performance. He advised Governor Bello to remain focused and not be distracted by the antics of failed politicians. In the same vein, HRH Simeon Ujah, the Ejeh Olamaboro, gave the state governor credit for the way he had piloted the affairs of the state. He thanked the governor for doing so well in fixing infrastructure such as Anyigba-Umomi-Idah, Ibana-Etteh and Ankpa township roads, even as he commended the governor for improving the welfare of the Gagos in the state. Another of the monarchs, HRH John Egwemi, the ruler of Ibaji local government, said politicians who are behind the mischiefs against the governor are the same people who could not come home for fear of kidnappers, until Governor Bello confronted the security challenges in the area head-on. He enjoined the governor to stay focused and not allow detractors to distract him.