The general manager, Air Namibia, Wimpie Van Vuuren, has observed that with 10 aircraft operated by Air Namibia, the country was extremely positioned to be a gateway to South Africa. Speaking at the unveiling of the visa processing office of Namibia in Lagos recently, Vuuren said, “Very soon we will increase our operations and we will operate jointly with Lagos and Accra routes. Before we commenced in Nigeria, there were stringent requirements which the airline had to comply with before we started operations.” Vuuren added that all the current staff the airline has now, were Nigerians and that they were yet to bring workers from Namibia. Speaking at the unveiling of the office, High Commissioner of Namibia to Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Humphrey Desmond Geiseb said, since the launch of Air Namibia direct passenger and cargo flight services between Windhoek and Lagos on June 29, 2018, Namibia has been providing a quantum leap for the bilateral trade relationship with Nigeria. Commissioner Geiseb said with a population of 2.4 million and one of the most stable, peaceful political environment in Africa, coupled with the ongoing expansion of the Port of Walvis Bay, Namibia is currently positioning itself as a gateway to the more than 240 million people in the broader Southern Africa market. He said tourism is one of the country’s fastest growing industries and provides significant employment opportunities, adding that Namibia is a nature-based tourism destination with spectacular scenery, including wide variety of wildlife, the world’s oldest desert, the world’s tallest sand dunes, and community-based nature conservancies. The commissioner , who confirmed that 700 visas were  issued in 2018, therefore, advised discerning Nigerians who love to relax and those willing to invest  to take advantage of the many tourist attractions and investment opportunities that abound across the country. According to Geiseb, “Namibia is a tourist destination in Africa with tourism accounting for over $500 million contribution to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). Our decision therefore, to open a visa processing centre in Lagos in partnership with Air Namibia is a strategic move aimed at easing the burden of having to travel to Abuja before getting a visa thereby further boosting diplomatic ties and trade between Nigeria and Namibia and offering choices and easy access to our highly- esteemed visitors and would-be investors.” Also speaking, Senior Public Relations Officer, Home Affairs and Immigration, Ms Salome Kambala, said that in as much as Namibia is ready for business and investors, visitors and would-be investors were required to meet certain obligations before they visit the country. Explaining what visitors require in terms of tourist visa, employment visa, student visa and others, Kambala informed that the number of foreign students visiting Namibia for study was increasing due to the conducive environment in the country. She however, said that at most, those seeking for Namibia visas were given the opportunity of three times, each lasting for three month in a year. In his remark, manager, Sales and Marketing, Gbenga Onitilo, said Namibia is a place everybody would like to be, adding that there were already 4,000 Nigerian professionals living in Namibia. Onitilo said Namibia has a very robust fishing and agricultural industry and that they have already developed a mechanism to detect and track country of origins of infected exported meat and beef. On the three months visa period, he said, “For visas, you are given 90 days to stay in Namibia for the circle of one year. At some point, we will evolve into visa on arrival and visa online.”