The managing director of Stoppy Limited, Ngozi Anene, has described the demolition of Abuja Garden, located at plot 164B, Cadastral Zone B01, Gudu district, by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), through the development control department as illegal. Speaking with LEADERSHIP, Anene frowned that the garden, which is owned by Stoppy Limited, was demolished last weekend by the department, not minding a notice of appeal and a motion for stay of execution. She disclosed that the garden in question has been a subject of litigation, adding that there is an appeal at the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division in respect of the disputed land. The managing director maintained that a notice of appeal from the chambers of Barrister Anthony Agbonlahor and Associates indicated the pendency of appeal, adding that her counsel had filed a motion for stay of execution of a judgment at the FCT High Court on 11th April 2019. She disclosed that the motion has been fixed for hearing on May 27, 2019, while  the department of development control, was served with the motion, and wondered why the department would resort to self help by demolishing the garden when they knew about the appeal. “Without prior notice, the department of development control demolished my garden. I could not bring out anything.  All my property and business items were buried under the rubble. Look at these boys and girls working with me, where will they go, what will they do. FCTA wants them to turn to the streets and become Boko Haram, thugs, criminals or what? I am an employer of labour, and this is not the best way to encourage entrepreneurs and small scale businesses in the country.” Also speaking, her lawyer, Mr. Anthony Agbolahor, wondered why the administration would choose to execute the court judgment, adding that he would pursue the matter to a logical conclusion. “A motion of appeal has been filed. A motion for the stay of execution has also been filed and May 27 has been fixed to hear the matter. It surprised me that despite these facts, the FCTA chooses to come here and carry out this action. It will not deter us from pursuing this case to a logical conclusion.”