Femi Oke is a journalist and television presenter from the United Kingdom. Currently, she is working for Al Jazeera English. In addition, she has also been appearing as a guest speaker in Universities and United Nations, World Food Programme. Femi Oke was born in London, England on June 30, 1966. She was born by Nigerian parents and has a sibling named Funmi Oke. There is not much information about Oke’s childhood, however she graduated from Birmingham University with a bachelor’s degree in English literature and language. Femi Oke has kept secret about her personal life from the public and the media. This is even as there is no information regarding her love life. She has succeeded in keeping her personal life secret. So far, she has never been seen with the opposite sex neither has there been rumors regarding her past affairs, boyfriend or even marital life. As at the time of filing this report,  Femi is single. Femi began her career at age 14 working as a junior reporter for the United Kingdom’s first talk radio station London Broadcasting Company. In 1993, Femi worked for a cable station called Wire TV, this was pre-Janet Street Porter’s L!VE TV. She has presented several shows for the station, including the popular Soap on the Wire ,a Saturday afternoon, with soap opera expert Chris Stacey. In the early 1990s, Femi presented the BBC’s flagship educational science programme “Science In Action” and was also a presenter of Top of the Pops. She has also worked for GMTV, London Weekend Television, Men & Motors and Carlton Television. She is a former anchor for CNN International’s World Weather service at the network’s global headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. She presented weather segments for the programmes “Your World Today and World News.” She also regularly hosted “ Inside Africa” now fronted by Errol Barnett, a programme that looks into the economic, social and cultural affairs and trends in Africa. She joined CNN in 1999, and worked there until 2008. She used to appear as a daily newscaster, contributor and interviewer on Public Radio International/WNYC’s morning public radio news programme, The Takeaway. Currently, she hosts The Stream on Al Jazeera English. Oke has trained broadcast meteorologists in Argentina and Mozambique for the UN’s World Meteorological Organisation. Speaking, lecturing and moderating credits include the University of Liberia, Emory University, University of South Carolina, European Commission, and the United Nations. In 2007 Femi  Oke’s work in Africa was recognised by The Economic Community of  West African States (ECOWAS) and the African Communications Agency with the presentation of the “African Achievers Award 2007”. Oke was also named Nigerian media personality of the year in 2007 and picked up the Interaction media award in 2008 for her commitment to broadcasting the complex issues of Africa. Oke is currently based in Washington D.C. where she hosts the interactive current affairs programme “The Stream” for Al Jazeera English. She’s also social media correspondent for NPR’s “Here and Now”, and an international moderator, facilitator and mistress of ceremonies. Oke joined CNN in 1999 and served there for nine years. She is presently working at Al Jazeera. As a successful journalist and TV presenter, Femi definitely has a good financial status. However, her net worth and salary are still undisclosed. In 2014, the delectable and highly intelligent Femi was in Lagos, Nigeria for the Social Media Week. She was so full of life. During the Week-long event, she hosted Africans in the Stream Keynote as well as other highly illuminating and fun-filled events. While in Lagos, she spoke to Konnect Africa about her life, her career, the Stream and her thoughts on social media. There are no rumours of scandals regarding her personal and professional life. So far, Oke has never been dragged into a controversy. It seems she is totally focused on her work. Femi has black hair and dark brown eyes. Aside these features, there are no other facts about her body measurement. That’s how private she is! She was reported to have accepted an invitation to teach on behalf of the World Meteorological Organisation in Buenos Aires, Argentina.   So far, she has conducted guest lectures for the University of Liberia, Emory University in Atlanta and has been a guest speaker at the United Nations, addressing the World Food Programme in Rome, Italy. Femi Oke is also active on social media as in her professional career. She keeps posting photos and other stuff on her social accounts such as Twitter and Instagram.