Kaduna State police command yesterday disclosed that the command has arrested 34 suspects involved in various criminal activities within in Kaduna State. Addressing a press conference, the Commissioner of police Ahmad Abdulrahman said, the briefing become expedient to keep the public abreast of the successes recorded in the fight against crime and criminality in Kaduna Command. According to the CP, “we have embarked on intensive manhunt of bandits and other criminals that attack people while pursuing their normal businesses within the Command with a view to arresting and bringing all the culprits to book. “This gallant determination could be seen in the recently launched ‘Operation Puff Adder’ by the Inspector General of Police IGP Mohammed Adamu Abubakar NPM, mni and the subsequent Confidence Building Campaign the Command vigorously carried out under my supervision particularly along Kaduna – Abuja Expressway. “The efforts have recorded some successes with the arrest of thirty (34) suspects on different crimes and belonging to different suspected criminal gangs that terrorize citizens of the State. “We have arrested nine (9) suspects for Criminal Conspiracy and Armed Robbery; sixteen (16) suspects for Criminal Conspiracy, Kidnapping and Armed Robbery; six (6) suspects for Criminal Conspiracy Armed Robbery and Cattle Rustling; two (2) suspects for Criminal Conspiracy Attempt to Commit an Offence to-Wit Kidnapping and Being in Possession of Firearms; and one (1) suspect for Criminal Conspiracy, Extortion, Defamation of Character and Giving False Information”. The Commisssioner disclosed that some of the arrested suspects have confessed to have been terrorizing Birnin Gwari road and have been involved in Cattle Rustling within the neighborhoods/surrounding villages, “The ring leader one Bashir a.k.a Minister and four others are still at large. We are making effort to apprehend the fleeing suspects” he added. He further informed that On 19/02/2019, some suspects were arrested and suspected to have conspired and kidnapped one Abdulazeez Aliyu a 9 year old child whose whereabout is still not yet identified. “However, they have given useful information during investigation”. Items recovered during the various arrest the Commissioner said include, 3 AK47 Rifle with 27 round of live Ammunition, 1 locally made pistol
1 Dane Gun, a pair of army Camouflage uniform, a Honda Civic vehicle navy blue in color with Reg. No. BL688GWA, Chassis No. JHMEJ933005017783, 2 Bajaj Motorcycle red in color both unregistered, 393 Cows, 93 Sheep, 1 Samsung S8 plus, a techno handset,
1 axe, 4 Cutlasses, assorted Charms,
3 torchlights, 1 cutlass,1 pinches – a House Breaking Implement and 1 Dog. On Kasuwan Magani crisis in Kajuru local government area of the state, The CP said the 24 hours curfew imposed by the state government on Kajuru local government area must be strictly adhered to, adding that enough of security operatives have been deployed to the area to contain the situation.