Recent incidents of banditry and kidnapping along Abuja-Kaduna expressway have continued to give travellers a cause for worry, reports BLESSING BATURE and MOSES ORJIEME Despite the assurance and measures already put in place by men of the Nigerian Police to combat kidnapping and banditry along the Abuja-Kaduna expressway, passengers in their numbers still throng the various rail stations in Abuja and Kaduna to avoid the sting from men of the underworld who almost took control of the federal road in the last couple of weeks while unleashing terror on travellers. ‘‘I travelled all the way from Zaria to Abuja, though the road seemed safe, there were no police check points till we almost got close to Abuja’’, Hauwa Usman, a traveller told LEADERSHIP Sunday. Hauwa who narrated how scaring the journey was, said every second was like an hour for her, till they got to the police post kilometres away from Abuja. ‘‘I only took the risk because I was travelling from Zaria. But even at that, next time, I would have to take the train to Abuja’’, she said. Hauwa is not the only one with the same thought or experience. Like her co-travellers, there are hundreds of Nigerians and travellers plying the same route who never wished to travel through the part till their confidents of safety are restored, hence the rush for an alternative means- getting a rail ticket at whatever cost. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalled that the surge of kidnapping and banditry activities along Abuja-Kaduna expressway had three weeks ago, forced an overpowering number of passengers travelling to and from Abuja-Kaduna to throng the Idu, Kubwa and Rigassa train stations that most of them for the first time had to miss the first train as there were no spaces to accommodate them. ‘‘This is unprecedented’’, said a stranded passenger who explained to LEADERSHIP Sunday how empty first trains used to be on a normal day. Some had to struggle to obtain tickets from the back door even if they had to stand in the whole hour of the journey, their main concern is to get to their destinations safely. The situation was not different at Kubwa and Rigasa where there were no security agents on ground to control the swelling crowd that overwhelmed management of the rail transport. Some passengers had left their homes as early as 4:30 am in the weekend in question, with the hope to get their tickets early but their hopes were however dashed with the announcement that there were no more tickets for sale. At the Kubwa station, passengers who were on the queues from 4:30 am had out of frustration accused officials at the station of hoarding tickets and selling to the highest bidders. They had poured their anger on the officials, describing the ticketing system as disorganised which they said was designed to exploit customers. They extended the frustration to authorities for the lack of security along the normal routes which had recently been over taken by bandits and armed robbers. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalled that between 2017 and 2018 during the heat of kidnapping and armed robbery in the Abuja-Kaduna expressway, the police command deployed no less than 1000 men to patrol the route for twenty hours. It should be recalled that when the terminal at the Abuja airport was under repair and flights were diverted to Kaduna, there was high-security presence on the road and criminal activities were at their lowest. Sadly, this could not be sustained as kidnappers and bandits returned to business and turned traveling a nightmare for travellers plying this road. Between March 7 and April 3, there have been several reported cases of kidnapping and robbery along this route with over 42 persons allegedly kidnapped, though the police had on one occasion debunked rumour of 37 passengers kidnapped on one of the occasions. On March 7, Daily Trust staff, Ahmad Garba, was kidnapped on his way from Abuja to Kaduna and was in the den of his captors for eight days where narrowly escaped death. On 2nd April About 37 Commuters were allegedly kidnapped by armed gunmen on the Kaduna-Abuja highway but the report was later debunked by the police. Even when the debate over whether these people where kidnapped or not, the general manager in charge of public relations of the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet), Muntari Ibrahim, was abducted in the along Kaduna-Abuja expressway in the afternoon of Tuesday, April 2. On April 3rd Kaduna State Governor, Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai’s convoy reportedly foiled an attempted kidnapping of motorists along Kaduna-Abuja road. In a video that went viral on social media, the Governor was seen along his security aides combing the bush in an attempt to trace the suspected kidnappers. According to a statement later released by the governor’s media aide, Samuel Aruwan, the governor, who was on his way to Abuja, got to the Akilubu village around 3:40 p.m., sighted dozens of vehicles parked by citizens alarmed that kidnappers were ahead. ”Security operatives in the governor’s convoy advanced and cleared the road of the criminals who fled into the forest. El-Rufai was said to have directed that travellers who had been wounded by the criminals be rushed to the nearest hospital. ”The governor also directed security agencies to intensify patrols and permanently clear the road of the bandits,” the statement added. Also in 2018, the case was not different. It was between March and May that several incidents of robbery and kidnapping were reported. On May 12, a major robbery incident had led to the deaths of four persons and in July 22, 2018, four people were also reportedly killed along the Kaduna-Abuja expressway. In-between, a major incident happened where eight persons were reportedly killed, while four others were wounded by suspected rustlers at Kurega village, along the expressway. It is the return of activities of bandits and armed robbers along this route that has in the last few days, forced passengers in their hundreds to throng the train stations over the weekend, leading to rowdiness during ticket purchase. They have blamed the government and officials for lack of coordination and organisation, while others have criticised security agencies for not living up to standard, a situation they said had forced many people to resort to travelling by rail. ‘‘I have changed my plans of travelling for now because I can’t take the risk of going by road or going to the train station to fight for a ticket I am not even sure of getting even at an exorbitant price’’, a passenger, Hilary Idodeh, told LEADERSHIP Sunday. ‘‘I have something good to do in Abuja but it should wait, because I have to live first before business. That road has become a death trap for travellers and I cannot fall into it till the government shows concern over our security’’, he said. Why Kidnapping And Banditry Returned To Abuja-Kaduna Expressway – Police Last week, the acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, said the police had drew out strategies to synergise with the Nigerian Air Force to address the rising spate of kidnapping and armed robbery within the FCT and neighbouring states, saying the NAF has the needed infrastructure to tackle the various security threats. The police also disclosed that successful operations and raids against bandits and kidnappers in areas like Zamfara had forced these criminals to move up towards Abuja. “These bandits and kidnappers are getting out of hand as a result of the heat they are getting from the attack in the Zamfara axis. They have all moved towards Abuja and we felt that as security organisations we need to synergise with other security outfits. “We (Nigeria Police) don’t have the air capability but the NAF has it so we felt that we needed to visit the CAS to work with his personnel so that we can have a joint operation to deal with this crime within the country’’, IGP Mohammed had disclosed. Also, President Muhammadu Buhari had on Thursday charged security agencies to put their acts together and deal ruthlessly with bandits, kidnappers and other security challenges in the country, Chief of Defence Staff, Gabriel Olonisakin, had briefed State House correspondents at the end of about two hours meeting with the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to him, the President said that no stone should be left unturned towards securing every part of the country. The Acting IGP, Mohammed Adamu, who also lent his voice, said that the frequent kidnapping on the Abuja-Kaduna road has been tackled. Programme coordinator, Presidential Committee On Small Arms and Light Weapons, Dickson Orji, had also expressed worry over the proliferation of arms, which many had said contributes largely to the menace of banditry and kidnapping saying, ‘‘we are bothered because we know that the primary choice of weapons of those perpetuating this crime is small and light weapons. Without these weapons in their possession, you and I can tackle them when confronted on the road. “We are really worried and this is why we are trying to train the capacity of the security agencies to tackle these challenges.” President Muhammadu Buhari had recently given orders to security chiefs to flush out bandits and kidnappers by whatever means from their hideouts across the country. IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, who disclosed the directive, said forces were aware that bandits have their camps in the forests; the strategy they were adopting was to take the fight to the kidnappers. ‘‘We will go to their camps, identify the camps, destroy them and occupy them so that they cannot come back’’, he said. In the last three weeks, LEADERSHIP Sunday had visited the Idu and Kubwa rail terminals to monitor developments and influx of passengers and findings have shown that Nigerians still prefer travelling by rail long since after the horrible incidents along the Abuja-Kaduna expressway. On April 11, the first train had taken off and a passenger Shuaibu Mora, had told LEADERSHIP Sunday that he now prefers to travel by rail due to recent security reports about Abuja-Kaduna expressway. He said he missed the first train because there was no space to accommodate him. He said normally, apart from weekends, most times it is difficult to have a full passenger train from Abuja to Kaduna or from Kaduna to Abuja on weekdays. At the station passengers, both the economic class and business class, who came earlier (11am) to book for ticket so as to avoid the shock they experienced in recent days, were seen waiting patiently for the second trip which according to them is to embark at 2:20pm. From counter, tickets were sold at N1300 for economic, while business class is sold for N2500. Another passenger who refused to be mentioned said that he also missed the first trip but he is expected to follow the second trip by God’s grace. He said that travelling by train is secure but the process is very slow. “If they can adjust the process of obtaining ticket it will be a good thing.” When railway station officials were approached to speak, the manager whose name is Sule was not on seat according to his secretary, who declined making any comment. LEADERSHIP Sunday also visited the Idu terminal on Tuesday to monitor developments. The influx of passengers still revealed preference for rail transport over the major route. Also on Friday May 25, LEADERSHIP Sunday was at the Idu Station at about 8:05 am and findings this time showed again that passengers are running away from Abuja-Kaduna expressway following recent security reports. It was exactly 9:15 am and officials had stopped selling tickets due to shortage of space with over a hundred passengers still waiting to buy tickets. Some had waited in the queue for over an hour, yet could not get tickets for the second trip at 9:50 am. Abubakar Umar, a stranded passenger, who said Friday was his first attempt to board a train because of fear of travelling through the Abuja-Kaduna highway, had waited for an hour before he was told to wait till 2:20 pm for the next train. ‘‘I have been here since 8:20am and as you can see, ticket for the trip Which I was supposed to buy is finished. My friend told me this before but I was just careless,” said Umar. Asked if he was going to wait till 2pm, he said ‘‘What do you expect? I can’t go back home or risk travelling by road even if the road is ok by now, it is a risk I am not ready to take’’. Yusuf, another stranded passenger, said he had since after recent security incidents along Kaduna road developed phobia for traveling through the route by road. ‘‘They said tickets for 9am have been sold to those who came earlier but I will wait for that of 2pm, said Yusuf who complained bitterly about the refusal of NRC to initiate an online ticketing system. An official who addressed some of the passengers who almost lost their temper, after wasting time but could not secure tickets, appealed to the passengers to be patient for the next trip. But reacting to the appeal, Samuel Bolade, a traveller who came with his family to the station for a trip to Kaduna for the weekend, decried the number of daily trips, which he said were not enough. ‘‘They should have made arrangements for more coaches to accommodate as many people who come here, particularly in rush hours like this’’, he lamented.