Typhoid fever is caused by bacteria called Salmonella typhi  that cause food poisoning. They typically live in humans and are shed through a person’s feces (poop) or urine (pee).The infection happens when a person eats or drinks something contaminated with the bacteria. When the bacteria get into the body, they quickly multiply and spread into the bloodstream. According to Dr. Anya Samuel in Abuja,typhoid fever is usually transmitted by drinking beverages or eating food that has been handled by someone who has typhoid fever or is a carrier of the illness. Those infected also can pass the disease to others directly (for example, by touching them with unwashed hands). People also get the illness by drinking water that is contaminated by sewage. He noted that Sanitizing water, boiling or disinfecting any water that will be used for drinking, washing or preparing food are preventive measures to avoid spread of typhoid fever. Ensuring also that children  avoid tap water, fountain drinks, and ice cubes, and reminding them to not swallow any water in the shower or bath. Guides To Cooking Food:Fully cook all food, and avoid food from street vendors and food stored or served at room temperature. Instead, serve packaged foods or meals that are freshly cooked and served steaming hot. Tips To Preventing Typhoid Fever Include: Avoid raw food. Avoid raw, unpeeled fruits and vegetables that may have been washed with contaminated water, especially lettuce and fruits like berries that can’t be peeled. Bananas, avocados, and oranges make better choices, but be sure you peel them yourself. For safety’s sake, you may want your kids to avoid raw foods entirely. Wash hands well and often. Wash with soap and clean, warm water, especially after kids use the bathroom or before they eat or prepare food. If no soap and water are available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Treatment Typhoid fever is treated with antibiotics that kill the bacteria. It’s important to take the medicine for the whole time that the doctor prescribes, even if your child feels better. If you stop it too soon, some bacteria could remain. Most kids start feeling better within 2 to 3 days of beginning treatment. Offer your child plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. Kids who are severely dehydrated due to diarrhea might need to get IV (intravenous) fluids in a hospital or other medical care facility. Heroic mother saved a stranger’s life by driving him from Manchester bomb blast to hospital at 100mph Trained nurse Lianna Shutt, 29, was leaving Manchester Arena with her family when she spotted a severely injured man with his daughter. The man, called Gary, had severe injuries to his shoulder, chest and legs and was bleeding profusely.