The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has appealed to Nigerians to continue to support its efforts to curb the infiltration of sub-standard goods in the market. The director-general of SON, Mr Osita Aboloma, who stated this in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, over the weekend during a general sensitisation workshop on SON metrology services, declared that the agency would not relent in its efforts to rid Nigerian markets of substandard goods. Aboloma, who was represented by Mr Ololade Ayoola, state coordinator, Rivers/Bayelsa states, commended the Bayelsa State government for its collaboration noting that: “we hope that with these series of intervention, we shall be able to impact knowledge and also help in capacity building within Bayelsa State.” Ayoola, who presented a paper: ‘SON Metrology Services and Trade Facilitation,’ listed the benefits of metrology to include reduction of disputation and transaction costs, consumer protection and level playing field for commerce, effective stock control and control of fraud, full collection of government excise and taxes and full benefits for commodity exports. He noted that the National Metrology Institute (NMI) was designed to ensure accuracy, credibility and traceability, to the international system of units of all measurements undertaken in industry and other sectors. According to him, this enhances consumer protection, quality control of agricultural, mining and industrial products, safety control in industry to guide against accidents caused by explosions and radiation. Speaking in an interview, Ayoola, who disclosed that there are efforts put in place to tackle sub-standard goods in Bayelsa State through sensitisation programmes and awareness workshops, added that physical visits to markets is also carried out for empirical evidence. “Predominantly in Bayelsa, we would definitely do more in the area of sensitisation. So when we see those that are unyielding, we go for enforcement, which would lead to sanctions. We can evacuate the products and if it is a manufacturing concern, we seal the place off and destroye the goods while we place them on very strict monitoring. Bayelsans should go for quality and check for certification logo of SON on products especially those manufactured in Nigeria. ‘‘And for those imported, we also have certification mark on them. People should look for this certification. If you suspect any product unsatisfactory or not meeting requirement, you can escalate to SON, we would do out findings and sanction accordingly.”