The Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside has said the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ exemplify courage, perseverance, pain and triumph over even the most difficult challenges. He stated that Jesus Christ as the only Son of God could have used his position and powers to avert his betrayal and eventual crucifixion despite being aware but chose to lay down his life to prove triumph over death and the redemption of mankind. Peterside, who spoke with newsmen in Port Harcourt on Sunday, called on Nigerians to exhibit courage, selflessness, generosity and good neighbourliness, pointing out that displaying such virtues will bring about a better society. The NIMASA boss commended Christians for their steadfastness, prayers, and cooperation for making sure that governments at various levels keep to their promises. He stated that Christians must continue to be prayerful and look unto God to raise leaders that will bring good to all parts of the country. Peterside said: “The period of Easter is also a season for friendship, forgiveness, love, and rededication to the ideals of Christianity. As Christians, the significance of the season must not be lost on us, we must do things that promote peace, progress, and development of humanity.” He used the opportunity to thank Nigerians for supporting President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government, who he says has been working painstakingly to right the wrongs of the past and put the country on a sure footing. The NIMASA boss said: “There have been challenges, difficult moments that have faced the Federal Government led by President Buhari but like in the significance of the season, he has been courageous, patient, unwavering in his desire to take Nigeria out of the woods and place her on a sound pedestal. “I want to thank Nigerians for their support so far and for voting President Muhammadu for a second term in office. Things are getting better gradually and we are beginning to see rewards for our patience, perseverance, and trust in the APC-led federal government.” 