The Zonal Technical Intelligence Response Unit of Zone X1, Osun State Police Command Tuesday said they have arrested three kidnap suspects identified as Jimoh Adamu Omotayo, Abdulaahi Budah and Umatilla Ahamed. Briefing newsmen in Osogbo, the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone X1. Adeleye O. Oyegbade said the kidnap gang led by Omotayo abducted 46-year old Salihu Ahmed in his farm located at Agbeye village in Odo-Otin local government area of Osun State. According to him, the gang numbering about five and armed with locally made single barrel guns took the victim to a forest in Ikare-Akoko, Ondo State where he was held captive for seventeen days. Oyegbade said that the gang which until the arrest had been terrorising innocent citizens of the State were forced to release their victim without collecting the three million naira ransom earlier demanded when they knew that police were closing up on them. His words, “Release of the suspect notwithstanding, the Zonal Technical Intelligence Response Unit led by SP Idowu Fapojuwo was mandated to arrest the suspects. “After a painstaking investigation carried out by a team of crack detectives from the unit, three members of the kidnap gang were nabbed at their various criminal hideouts in the state “Upon the arrest, the kingpin confessed to the crime and named Abdulaahi Budah, (52), Umaru Ahmed (35) and one Babatunde and one other as members of the gang who perpetrated the criminal act.’’ The police boss noted that the Command has succeeded in decimating the impregnable gang even as efforts are being intensified to nab other fleeing armed members of the gang, adding that with the breakthrough, incidences of kidnapping for ransom in the Zone will further reduce drastically. Speaking with newsmen, the leader of the gang, Jimoh Adamu Omotayo who said he hails from Okuku claimed that he was co-opted into the dastardly act by Babatunde who was at large during the briefing. Omotayo who claimed to be an Islamic Cleric said he decided to back out of the crime when he realized the evil effect adding that he would not engage in such venture again if released by the police. AIG Oyegbade promised to charge the suspects to court immediately investigation was concluded. 