The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has stated that he has delivered on the promises he made to Nigerians three years ago concerning the power, works and housing sectors  under his ministry. The minister while briefing the press in his Abuja office yesterday, said based on the feedback the office has been getting from the general public which showed better experience compared to what it was in 2015, he was very convinced that he has fulfilled his promise of incremental power, better journey experience on the roads, affordable housing, as well as economic opportunities for Nigerians. “In the power sector, well-meaning Nigerians acknowledge our efforts by saying clearly that their power supply experience has improved compared to 2015, and we acknowledge that the work has not finished. “The task going forward is to solve the outstanding issues of estimated billing, supply of meters, add more power and make the supply steady which I stated will be our medium-term goal. “In the road sector, there is at least one federal road under construction in each of the 36 states and the FCT; while some have been completed, others are still under construction. “Construction workers will tell you that they now have a better deal, likewise quarry operators. “More importantly the road transport operators and their unions and commuters will tell you that their journey times are better. The housing sector has a similar story of economic opportunities with construction going on in 34 states most of which are now largely completed. “But our work is not finished.These are some of the reasons why President Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected. To take the people to the next level and finish the job.” He said the Buhari government has opened a new page in the power sector through his ministry about the possibilities that lie in the off- grid sources. “In the works sector, the Ilorin-Jebba road which had collapsed and used to take 3-7 days to traverse 93km is now finished and take a little over one hour to travel. “Maintenance work on bridges, long neglected is being undertaken on assets like 3rd Mainland Bridge, Isaac Boro Bridge, Tamburawa Bridge, Eko Bridge, the old Niger Bridge, while new ones like 2nd Niger Bridge, Bodo-Bonny Bridge, Loko-Oweto Bridge, are being constructed and others have been recently awarded,” he noted.