Fresh facts have emerged that about 13,750 motorists have violated the traffic law out of 375,545 vehicles captured by the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Camera in Lagos State, since its inception at the beginning of the year. The Lagos State Government through the Vehicle Inspection Service in collaboration with Soft Alliance Limited initiated the use of Automatic Number Plate Recognition Cameras around the state to aid the coordination of commuter movement while ensuring strict and total compliance of motorists to traffic laws in the state. Commenting on the development, Director Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Engineer Gbolahan Toriola said the gesture of the VIS is in line with the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode pronouncement of May 16th 2017, toward observing international best practices in the sector. He pointed out that the state government has adopted the advanced technological intervention to maintain a strong level of enforcement without interfering with the traffic flow. Toriola added that the cameras were launched after a number of pilot schemes to test its efficiency considering the nature of Lagos road network. Dwelling on the working principle of the new technology, he said the camera captured the number plate of the vehicles and records it into the system after which it is synchronized with a data base platform comprising of FRSC, Courteville, LASDRI, NIID, VIS, PTCS to confirm validity, genuineness of vehicles and driver’s document as well as its expiration date. Toriola pointed out that some of the cameras were installed on the VIS patrol vehicles to aid in tracking vehicles without plate numbers plying the road. He assured Lagosians that the cameras have been modified to identify defaulters only, adding that those who have done the necessary documentations should not entertain any fear. According to him, the e-tickets are thereafter produced and served to defaulters in accordance to the offenses accrued by the ANPR, saying the device encourages voluntary compliance. He emphasized that in case the offender could not be found or does not respond with prompt payment within seven days, the offender will be blacklisted and charged to the mobile court in addition with 100 per cent increment in the fine. ‘’All these are in tandem with the traffic laws as revised by the State Government. We appeal to residents to cooperate with the government in order to bring back sanity to the roads as this will definitely yield positive and meaningful growth in the transportation sector of the state,’’ he said. 