The Federal Government is set to enter into a partnership investment agreement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia aimed at facilitating the development of infrastructure in the Nigerian oil and gas sector. Accordingly, both nations are set to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in the first week of May 2019. Areas to be covered include, revamping of existing refineries, building of a brand new refinery, LNG investments and product supply trading in crude and refined products. This is part of decisions reached during a high level bilateral meeting between the minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, HE Khalid bin Abdulaziz Al-Falih and Nigeria’s minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, on Wednesday, April 24th, 2019 in Riyadh. Dr Kachikwu had led a high-powered delegation drawn from the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) and Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF) for an exploratory visit to the oil rich nation at the invitation of his Saudi counterpart, HE Khalid Al Falih. A statement from the ministry, issued yesterday, said the visit was aimed at crystallising the ongoing discussions on collaborating with the Federal Government of Nigeria on investments in the oil and gas sector, adding that it also provided an opportunity for a close observation of Saudi Aramco’s Command Centre, the Oil Supply, Planning and Scheduling Centre and the Geosteering Operations Centre in the Exploration and Petroleum Engineering Centre (EXPEC). According to the statement, Al-Falih expressed strong readiness of his country to sign a MoU with Nigeria. The Saudi Energy Minister was said to have communicated the blessings of the King of Saudi Arabia, Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and the Crown Prince, HRH Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud for the partnership investment while announcing their readiness to sign the MoU with the Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari. He also stated that his team would undertake the task of drafting an outline of the MoU in consonance with Nigeria and consequently move through the bureaucratic channels of getting the requisite approvals and endorsements. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) governors for the two countries, Eng Adeeb Y Al-Aama (Saudi Arabia) and Dr Omar Farouk Ibrahim (Nigeria) have already been nominated to fast track the process for official endorsements and signing. According to the report, the early draft of the MoU that will solidify the new oil and gas development partnership between Nigeria and Saudi Africa will be ready in the first week of May, 2019. Part of the statement reads, “The agreement will, in principle, open doors for Nigeria to potentially benefit from Saudi Arabia’s and effectively, Saudi Aramco’s recent aggressive oil sector investments across the globe. Areas of interest will cover existing refinery revamp, building of a brand new refinery, LNG investments and product supply trading in crude and refined products. HE Khalid Al Falih also reiterated the possibility of establishing an independent refinery in Nigeria as the country considers Nigeria as the best hub to reach other African countries. “Nigeria and Saudi Arabia have, over the decades, enjoyed robust bilateral relationship with the Nigerian delegation to the holy land pilgrimage among the highest globally amidst the common heritage of being abundantly blessed with oil and gas deposits.” Dr Kachikwu was quoted to have equally expressed confidence that the definite signing of the MoU would further cement the cordial relationship between both nations. According to him, the visit to Saudi Arabia became necessary due to the common grounds between the two countries and the success of the country in the oil and gas sector. Dr Kachikwu disclosed that Nigeria aims to leverage on the huge success of the Saudi Government in the sector while name checking Saudi Aramco’s turnover of over $200bn in the last year. He further applauded the cooperation between Nigeria and Saudi Arabia at the highest global level of OPEC, while expressing his excitement that the two lead persons for the MoU drafting are seasoned OPEC Governors with the highest levels of competence.