Five –time champions Nigeria will guarantee a return to the FIFA U-17 World Cup finals if they overcome Angola in their second match at the ongoing Africa U-17 Cup of Nations in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, today. However, Angola head coach, Pedro Dos Santos is confident of victory against the West African side. Dos Santos, who spoke at the pre-match briefing, yesterday, ahead of the crucial top of the table battle, said the confidence and motivation level of his boys has soared after beating Uganda in the opening match. ‘’This is a big opportunity for us because if we win this game we will have a good chance of going to the FIFA U-17 World Cup in Brazil,’’ he told reporters. ‘’We watched Nigeria against Tanzania, and they are a good team especially in attack. But we will map out a strategy to contain them and possibly win. We are confident of victory against Nigeria. They are a strong team but we are ready to take them on,” Dos Santos said. A reproachable slack approach saw the Golden Eaglets slump from 3-1 lead to conceding three goals and falling behind against host nation Tanzania in the tournament opener on Sunday, but they woke from slumber in good time to win with two spectacular goals and pocket three precious points in a 5-4 win. Angola’s 1-0 win over Uganda hours later has ensured that the winner of the top-of-the-table duel between Nigeria and Angola, today, would have one leg in the semifinals and automatically in the FIFA U-17 World Cup slated for Brazil later this year. All four semifinalists at the ongoing championship in Tanzania will represent Africa in Brazil. Two –goal hero against Tanzania, Wisdom Ubani and Man-of-the-Match Akinkunmi Ayobami Amoo will be the cynosure of all eyes in the Eaglets’ attacking line today. Yet, Ibraheem Jabaar, who slammed in the winning goal against the Serengeti Boys minutes after coming on as a substitute, is also capable of making things happen, just as Olakunle Olusegun, Fawaz Abdullahi and Olatomi Olaniyan.  Nigeria won the Africa U17 Cup of Nations in 2001 in Seychelles and in 2007 in Togo, and were world champions in 1985 (China), 1993 (Japan), 2007 (Korea Republic), 2013 (UAE) and 2015 (Chile).  Current Head Coach, Manu Garba was also at the head of the technical team that won in the United Arab Emirates six years ago