ANKELI EMMANUEL takes a look at the outcome of the recently-concluded governorship election in Sokoto State and the aftermath. The general elections have come and gone in most states of the federation. While in some states, where results were declared, losers called to congratulate the winners, and in other places, the reverse is the case. Expectedly, the scenario in Sokoto State, the Seat of the Caliphate is quite awesome. Though, the Returning Officer for the governorship election, Prof. Fatima Bulutu Mukthar, had announced the winner since after the supplementary election of March 23, amusingly, however, none of the losers is ready to admit losing the battle. Shortly after the declaration of incumbent Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of the PDP as the winner of the supplementary election, there were rumours that the state leader of the APC and former governor, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, had called to congratulate Tambuwal over the victory. And as expected, the story received wide commendations. But not long afterward, it was debunked as a fake news. In a sharp contrast to the development, a statement by Senator Wamakko’s media aide, Bashir Rabe Mani, vehemently disassociated the Senator from having made any of such calls to congratulate Tambuwal after the elections. According to Mani, Senator Wamakko did not call to congratulate anybody as far as the governorship election was concerned in Sokoto state. Confirming Mani’s position on the development, Governor Tambuwal himself in a chat with journalists days after he was declared as the winner of the governorship supplemenatry election, said his predeccesor, Senator Wamakko had not call to congratulate him as widely speculated. According to Tambuwal, his victory was made possible by God and the good people of the state who despite inducement and threat remained steadfast and resolute in their support for him. “My victory at the just-concluded governorship election was but an act of God which was perfected by the resillience of the people of the state. Because, if it were to be for money or power, the election would have gone the other way round,” thr governor said. On the strength of reciprocation, Tambuwal assured that his first major priority as before would continue to be delivering good governance for the people of the state. Tambuwal revealed that his government had focussed more on human capital development within the last couple of years. He insisted that most developed countries of the world take the issue of human capital development with greater priority, adding that, however, in some instances, the impact of massive investment in education, health and other critical sectors could only be seen over time. Reflecting on the scenario of the just-concluded governorship election in the state, Tambuwal wondered why the heavy presence of securitymen, which resulted into the disenfranchisement of some eligible voters. Not minding all barriers that militated against the supposed large turnout of voters for the supplementary election, Tambuwal however said,  his greatest happiness remained that his victory was a success story too complex to be forgotten in the nation’s electoral history. “My victory of 342 votes is the slimmest so far in the history of the nation. Though, it is the figure that gave us victory inspite of the fact that, election in Sokoto state has never been this militarised until 2019,” he added. Although, most people expect a challenge at the Election Petition Tribunal as APC openly expressed its displeasure with the conduct of the election, that however has not materialised. The state chapter of the APC has opened another can of worms. It has raised the alarm over what it described as untoward acts of aggression, repression and intimidation being perpetrated against its supporters in Sokoto. And as expected, it’s accusing fingers are directly pointed towards the rulling PDP in the state. Addressing journalists on the aftermath of the state governorship election and what has almost become the fate of APC supporters, the state chairman of the party, Hon. Isa Sadiq Achida, said his party has been suffering untold confrontation in all spheres of human endeavours since after the supplementary election. “The various categories of the victims of these acts of aggression being perpetrated by some deluded and ungodly supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) include traders,  civil servants, religious and traditional leaders, as well as other categories of the law abiding citizens. This is really unacceptable, reprehensible and retrogressive development which must urgently stop,” he said. Achida further said: “The PDP administration in Sokoto owes the people an explanation. Is the Sokoto state government aware of the civil servants in the state and local governments offices being physically assaulted and sent out of their offices arbitrarily and instantly replaced by PDP hoodlums? “Is the Sokoto state government aware that traders are now being denied the right to open and sell their wares in places previously owned and run by them,  for the simple reason that they are known or suspected to be APC supporters? Is the Sokoto government aware or not that people are being extraordinarily and exorbitantly levied before they are allowed to conduct commercial activities in our markets in towns and villages across the state?,” he added. Reacting to the allegations, a cheitain of the PDP who gave his name as Mallam Lawali, described the allegations baseless. According to him, people must not because of politics despise their religion which uphold the sovereign belief of speaking the truth at all times. Carpeting the APC chairman over what he described as frivolously tailored and waxed lies, Lawali wondered how on earth would thugs suspected to be supporters of PDP go to offices and begin to humiliate or chase away those suspected to be apologists of the APC and his candiate. “The APC further accused PDP of imposing levy on traders. What a childish way of framing lies. How would the government impose levies on only APC and skip those that allegedly supported PDP? “To further add flavour to the uncooked lies by the Sokoto APC,  they shamefuly said some hoodlums suspected to be working for the PDP continue to parade themselves, caning and flogging people suspected to be APC supporters, claiming that they are cleansing them for integration into the society. “How would such an act happen in Sokoto without a single person being apprehended, named or reported to the any of the security agencies? “To the best of our understanding, the APC is yet to come to terms with the reality of its defeat in the governorship election because they have boasted how they will rig the election and ensure that they win at all cost and God has frustrated them. Let them admit the reality and people’s verdict. God gives leadership to whom He choses at all times. Either they like it or not, God has given Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal a second term in office. “They should therefore learn how to admit the outcome and the realities of aftermath of the election which Tambuwal in his usual peaceful disposition has assured will be an all-inclusive governance,” he added.