Terminal operators and the United States Coast Guard (USCG) have disagreed over the level of security at Nigerian seaports and jetties. While the US Coast Guard recently blacklisted 12 port terminals, jetties in Nigeria and slammed conditions of entry on ships that have visited Nigeria’s port terminals in recent times, terminal operators said that all concessioned port terminals in the country are in full compliance with the provisions of the International Ships & Ports Facility Security Code (ISPS) Code. The ISPS Code, which is being implemented under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), is an amendment to the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Convention (1974/1988) on minimum security arrangements for ships, ports and government agencies. The terminal operators under the umbrella of Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) said in a press statement recently that private they have made significant investment in ensuring adequate security measures in their operational areas in full compliance with the ISPS Code. According to the press statement signed by STOAN spokesman, Mr. Bolaji Akinola, the ISPS Code is an essential maritime regulation for the safety and security of ships, ports, cargo and crew and so all private terminal operators at the six major port complexes across Nigeria do not take the responsibilities of ensuring adequate compliance to the provisions of the Code lightly. “We have made, and will continue to make, significant financial investments towards ensuring that every operational area assigned to us in the ports are well secured,” the statement read in part. He also said that all the concessioned port terminals across the country have adequate Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) coverage to monitor activities and maintain strict access control to human and vehicular movements. LEADERSHIP recalls that conditions of entry were slammed on port terminals and jetties in Nigeria over lapses in the implementation of the ISPS.  The ISPS Code came into force in 2004 and prescribed responsibilities to governments, shipping companies, shipboard personnel, and port/facility personnel to detect security threats and take preventative measures against security incidents affecting ships or port facilities used in international trade. According to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigeria has six port complexes with terminals and jetties spanning across the Western port – Apapa and Tin Can port complexes and Eastern port – Rivers port, Onne port, Calabar and Delta port. The Apapa port comprise of  four terminal operators which includes:  Apapa Bulk Terminal Limited (ABTL), AP Moller Terminal (APMT), ENL Consortium and Greenview Development Nigeria Limited (GDNL) while the Tin Can Island port is currently operated by five terminal operators which include Port and Terminal Multiservices Limited (PTML), Josepdam Ports Services Limited, Tin Can Island Container Limited, Port & Cargo Handling Services Limited and Five Star Logistics Limited. The operators at Calabar Port are Ecomarine Terminal Ltd and Addax Logistics and Rivers Port has Ports and Terminal Operators Limited (PTOL) and BUA Ports and Terminal with Julius Berger, Associated  Marine Services; Green Leigh Nigeria Limited operating at  Delta Port and Intels Nigeria Limited, Brawal Oil Services, WACT, Atlas Cement at Onne port. The Coast Guard’s sanctions on Nigerian ports fell on ENL Consortium, Port and Terminal Operators Limited (PTOL), BUA ports and Terminal, Brawal Oil and Gas, West African Container Terminal (WACT), Eco Marine. Others are: Julius Berger, Associated  Marine Service, Green Leigh Nigeria  Limited, Addax Logistics and Atlas Cements. The Coast Guard stated in the notice that all vessels entering the United States after visiting  Nigerian seaports in their last five port calls must take certain actions while in the countries as a condition for entry into the U.S. ports. In an official statement issued, the U.S. Coast Guard said the conditions of entry, which came into effect on April 12, 2019, are intended to protect the United States from vessels arriving from countries that have been found to have deficient anti-terrorism port measures in place.