The Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) has said it was not against the Nigeria SEZ Investment Company Limited (NSEZCO), rather, it wants to be included on the board of the company as a shareholder to enable it represent the interests of the federal government as obtained in LNG where the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is the federal government’s representative or the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) which is the representative of the government in all the airports in the country. The Authority stated this during a sitting of the joint committees of the national assembly made up of the appropriation committee of the senate, senate committee on trade and investment, appropriation committee of the House of Representatives, house committee on commerce on Thursday. Minister of industry, trade and investment,Dr Okechukwu Enelamah, had some weeks back in the course of the presentation on the 2018 budget performance and 2019 proposals to the committee, chaired by Senator Sabo Mohammed (APC Jigawa North West) for approval, presented a booklet containing 2019 budget proposals for the 17 agencies under his ministry. After his presentation, Senator Mohammed referred him to item 2 on page 7 of the booklet which has N42.091billion allocation for Nigeria SEZ Investment Company Limited (NSEZCO), not known to be one of the agencies under the ministry. In his response, Enelamah told the senate committee that the private company was established through a presidential initiative and approval given it at a cabinet meeting in May 2018. The discovery of the illegal company led to the rejection of the ministry’s N15.633 billion estimates for this fiscal year by the committee. But NEPZA argued before the joint committee on Thursday that the law setting it up allows and permits it to carry out the same activities that NSEZCO was being set up to do,and stressed that the argument that the Authority was not empowered to do so was not correct. It also added that if the federal government in its wisdom, still preferred that another entity such as NSEZCO was better placed to carry out its functions, then it was advisable that the enabling law of the Authority be amended to restrict it to pure regulatory functions excluding management and operations of the free trade zones and its allied variants. It further noted that the executive would have carried along the national assembly in the process of using NSEZCO as it was in the case of India. While stating that the Authority was in full support of the initiatives of the President  Muhammadu Buhari- led administration on the special economic zones, it told the joint committee that it was only insisting that the establishment of NSEZCO should be transparent, follow due process, and the law. The minister of industry, trade and investment, Okechukwu Enalamah , was represented at the joint committee sitting by the permanent secretary in the ministry, Mr Edet Akpan.