Skyline University Nigeria, (SUN), the first private university in Kano has on Saturday, matriculated 82 pioneer students admitted into the 2018/2019 academic session. The students were admitted into various bachelors’ degree programmes in the School of Arts Management & Social Sciences, (SAMSS) as well as the School of Sciences & Information Technology, (SSIT) based on the requirements of National Universities Commission, (NUC). The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Sudhakar Kota in his address during the maiden matriculation ceremony, held at the university premises in the Kano metropolis, challenged the students to take advantage of the opportunity to become successful thinking individual and responsible citizens of the country through their university journey and serve the community within the legal and ethical framework of Nigeria.  “The 2018/2019 academic year is indeed a good start for Skyline University Nigeria”, Kota said. He further urged the students to make the best out of the university, saying “SUN has given assurance to provide you with quality inputs, technological integration, learning resources and use internationally accepted pedagogies that will enhance your knowledge, skills and competencies with values”. The Vice Chancellor has disclosed that the university will provide more programs on legal studies, engineering and basic medical courses that are the need of the hour in Nigeria and the world around, “We wish to see you as a job creator by being an entrepreneur than being a job seeker”, he added. The university Don further reminded the students that it will not be an easy ride, but affirmed the university’s commitment to ensure that the students are comfortable and attain their dreams at the end of it all. He also stressed the university’s firm commitment to the protection of the environment and urged the students to contribute to transforming the University to green and sustainable campuses.  In his remarks, the special guest of honor at the event, the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II encouraged Kano residents to apply to the university in view of its global standard. According to him, the university has been equipped with high-quality lecturers and  facilities which should not be left out by people in a bid to acquire quality education and encourage self-employment and job creation. He expressed optimism that Kano would soon get more quality doctors and engineers after graduating from the institution. He reassured the university of the support of the state government and Kano Emirate Council in a bid to provide quality education in the state. Finally, the Registrar, Mr Satya Vir Sighn, administered the matriculation oaths on the students while the matriculation register was signed to signal the conclusion of the registration formalities as bonafide students of the institution.