The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has said that there is no victor, no vanquished in the Wednesday Supreme Court verdict, appealing to former Governor Segun Oni embrace the olive branch extended to him by Governor Kayode Fayemi. The APC State Chairman, Barrister Paul Omotoso, described Fayemi and Oni as eminent members of the party and Ekiti citizens, who should be working in unity for the overall development Ekiti. He said the party must be focused to be able to deliver on its promises to Ekiti people. It would be recalled that the eligibility suit filed by Oni who prayed the court to nullify Fayemi’s participation in the Ekiti APC governorship primary was dismissed by the apex court. Oni, in the suit said Fayemi was not qualified to participate in the May 12, 2018 primary of the party on his alleged refusal to resign his ministerial appointment 30 days before primary as stipulated by the party’s constitution. Omotoso in a statement by the party in Ado Ekiti on Thursday lauded the resilience and dogged determination of some members of the party to think of legitimate way of challenging a primary, rather than resorting to self- defence. He added that court remains the best democratic channel to challenge the outcome of any election, saying the party won’t victimise Oni and his supporters over the action they took. According to him, “The judgment by the highest court in the land affirming and authenticating the victory of Dr Fayemi at the primary was a welcome development. “At this point, I want to remind all members of APC in Ekiti state that this victory belongs to us all. We should now put this behind us and join hands with the administration of Dr Fayemi to move the state forward. “Rather than divide us, the Supreme Court’s judgment should further make us stronger as one family of APC. “Governor Fayemi is already forming an all- inclusive administration and will continue to seek advice from all the leaders of the party as well as consult them on matters that are aimed at moving the state forward. “Let us all rise above personal sentiment and work as a team to make APC stronger and a party to emulate in Ekiti state”, he said.