Jos Repertory Theatre (JRT), Festival of Theatre is back. The twelfth edition which packs a thrilling foreign and local repertoire, opens on May 7, and focuses on ‘building a new generation for the arts’. Festival Founder, Patrick Jude Oteh, says rather than the usual ten schools, the festival targeted twenty to twenty-five schools, as a means of enticing interests of the present generation to the theatre. “We are trying to reach out to the festival’s young traditional audience. My generation being different from today’s, what got us interested in drama was the visiting of theatre playhouses, and the acting, and performances put up by theatre practitioners at schools, back in the day,” says Oteh. A new addition to the festival is the JRT Masters Programme. Not to be confused as an academic degree, the platform, Oteh notes, honours the achievements of first-generation Nigerian playwrights, beginning this year with the staging of Zulu Sofola’s Wedlock of the Gods. “To the best of our knowledge her (Sofola’s) play has not been performed in our locale in recent times. With its strong gender undertones, especially as regards the marital rights of women, what with the recent judgement of Nigeria’s Supreme Court stating women now have equal inheritance rights to men, we think believe the play is apt for this season,” adds Oteh. Supported largely by the US Mission in Nigeria, the festival will feature stage adaptations of the American playwright, Arthur Miller’s All My Sons; French writer, Eugene Lonesco’s tragic-comedy, The Lesson, a tale of a professor who lures students into his studio, to off them with the help of his maid. Directing the headline play, All My Sons is Kalbang Afsa-Walshak, while her colleague and resident actress, Olajumoke Olatunbo, directs The Lesson. Local repertoire will feature the world premiere of Sefi Atta’s Death Road, a classic plot ‘of recruitment and radicalization in a family threatening the once-peaceful household; Tony Wants To Marry a play by Nigerian legislator, Jerry Alagbaoso, and a revival of Zulu Sofola’s Wedlock of the Gods. Festival Founder, Oteh directs Attah’s Death Road, while recent actor, Sunny Adahson and the newly established JRT’s Masters Programme, take on Tony Wants To Marry, and Wedlock of the Gods. Other corporate and local supporters of the festival include, the Plateau State Ministry of Information, Grand Cereals Limited, the International Performers’ Aid Trust (IPAT), and the Jos Business School. Festival of Theatre opens May 7, in Jos, Plateau State.