Authorities of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corp (NSCDC) has arrested and paraded a pregnant widow and five others over alleged illegal bunkering and sale of adulterated fuel, kerosene, and diesel in some parts of Bayelsa State.  The suspects, identified as  Mrs Udumudeno Omenuwome, a pregnant woman, Mr. Yaya Anerohm, Lateefa Hamza, Ahmed Zibiri and Mr.Kelvin Owere ,were arrested at Trofani in Sagbama and Okaki junction in Yenagoa, the Bayless capital.  The arrested widow, claimed she resorted to the sale of the adulterated product as a means of livelihood.  While Mr. Oriade Clement admitting ignorance of the implications of their act on the unsuspected Nigerians.  Other arrested suspects pleaded for leniency just as they promised to turn a new leaf by engaging in a meaningful venture that could turn around their fortunes.  The Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corp NSCDC Bayelsa state command, Mr. Ideba Pedro ,while parading the suspects, reaffirmed the command’s readiness flush out illegal bunkering activities in the state.  Mr. Pedro who made this known while parading the arrested suspects at the NSCDC headquarter in Yenagoa, warned those involved in the act to steer clear off the state or face the full weight of the law.  The Commandant who decried the upsurge of adulterated petroleum product in the state as well as the unwholesome practice in the downstream oil sector said the command will not rest on its effort in clamping down on all illegal activities in the oil sector of the state.  Mr Pedro while reminding those involved in the sharp practice of it consequence on the citizens, the economy especially, the oil sector which remains the nation’s mainstay advised them to have a rethink.  Mr Pedro appealed for cooperation of the public in order to ride oil Saboteures off the state assuring that those arrested will be made to face the law so as to serve ad deterrent to orders.  He further highlights some of the damages being face by the suspected public that has led to serious casualty in the past.