The Gladdened Point Foundation in collaboration with the Universal Peace Federation has called for peace and harmony among various ethnics and religious group in the country.  The group social director of media, Aliyu Musa said this during the 2019 special ambassadors for peace workshop and international induction of United Nations ambassador for peace members. Themed: national peaceful coexistence; using “The Cross” and “The crescent” as great assets held in Abuja.  Aliyu said that there are two major things to look at in  our lives that is when you are talk about Cross it means you are talking about Christianity just like when you talk about Crescent you are talking about Islam, these two famous things has remained a unifying factor for all religious not only in Nigeria but all over the world and the both religious preaches peace and their teaching is peace.  According to him, we have religious but we do not know how to practice it. We claimed to be Muslims and Christians but we are not practicing what the real religious teaches.  “We politicised religious, criticism among other things has led our daily existence and destruction of lives and properties has become the only cure for us.  “So I’m appealing to every one of us to embrace peace, stand for the truth, do the right thing at the right time because you can not say what you can not do.  You know words are always matched with actions, demonstrate the reality of peace and at the same time say the truth at anywhere you find yourself.  “We must be alive in our consciousness in all areas of our personal, social, political, family and religious lives,” he said.  He further said that when we oppress others or take for ourselves and family what is meant for all, it is called greed and selfishness.  “We have few individuals who are gaining so much from the impunity in the land. We cannot move forward as a nation unless we learn to love and accommodate one another,’’ he added.  He urged journalists to use their medium as tool to promote peace in the country.