President Muhammadu Buhari has reassured parents of the school girls of Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State that he has not forgotten their daughters who were kidnapped from their dormitory exactly five years ago. According to a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, the president recalled that he had promised the parents, when he met them at the beginning of his first term as president, that he would bring their daughters home. Shehu said the president is aware that this promise he made is the main reason the people of Chibok voted overwhelmingly for him in the February elections, and although his government has so far succeeded in bringing back 107 of the girls, the president will not rest until the remaining girls are reunited with their families. President Buhari assured the parents that his administration was still working to resolve the matter. According to him, diverse efforts are being intensified to secure the release of the Chibok Girls, along with all hostages in Boko Haram captivity, including Leah Sharibu, who was kidnapped from her school, Government Girls Science and Technical  School, Dapchi, Yobe State, on February 19, 2018. On Leah Sharibu’s abduction, the president said the interlocutors had reported encouraging progress so far. The statement reads in part: “The report reaching us says her return to her family has unfortunately been hindered by the fear of the militants. “They worry that heavy military presence in areas where they previously moved about freely could affect their safety after they return her to the government. “At the same time, the military cannot jeopardise the security of the entire north-eastern region by halting their operations to accommodate Boko Haram’s fears. “Leah Sharibu will be reunited with her family as soon as any conclusions are reached on a number of options being considered for her safe transportation.” The president said the success of the Nigerian military in subduing Boko Haram was evidenced by the large numbers of militants who had surrendered recently, especially in neighbouring Cameroon and Niger. According to him, a similar mass surrender of militants is expected to happen soon in Nigeria . “While Nigerian military operations are ongoing, the government is also engaging with the militants but the talks have been affected by the factionalisation of Boko Haram – with one group adopting a hard line attitude and intensifying attacks on Nigeria, Cameroon and Chad, and another group engaging with the government for peaceful resolution. “President Buhari also uses this opportunity of the commemoration of the Chibok tragedy to commend the girls, now women, who have triumphed over it all. “He sends special greetings to the 106 girls sponsored by the Nigerian government to continue their studies at the American University of Nigeria, Yola. “He encourages them to stay focused on becoming women who will inspire girls in Nigeria and around the world to triumph over the daily battles they face in a world that is often unfair to the girl-child. “President Buhari also extends his best wishes to Chibok girls in other schools in Nigeria and around the world. “He sends special congratulations to Kauna Yaga Bitrus, who has excelled beyond expectations in her college in Maine, USA, and who is soon to receive a special ‘Against All Odds Award’ from her school,” he stated.  Agonies Of The Parents Some of the parents who spoke to LEADERSHIP Sunday ahead of the fifth anniversary of their daughters’ abduction urged the Nigerian government to seek assistance from some countries of the world if the task of rescuing the girls has gone beyond its powers. They equally wondered why officials of the school who kept the school open and mandated their daughters to sleep in the school’s hostel,  against government’s order that schools in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa be shut because of the terrorists’ activities then, have not been questioned up until now. The parents alleged that the whole kidnap saga was a setup  even as they accused some parents whose daughters have been found of conniving with government to compound their woes. Bulama Jonah is father to Amina Bulama, one of the rescued girls. He said since that incident, no reasonable thing has been done by the government to ameliorate their  plight. Mr Jonah said he was formerly an official of the Chibok schoolgirls parents’ group,  but opted out when he discovered that the Committee did not have sincerity of purpose. Jonah said, “I opted out when I discovered that some of us have taken sides with government and abandoned the job of our committee. They associate with government to cheat us because they were lured with contracts by government, so they abandoned the project of fighting for the return of our remaining girls. “ Last year, they invited us to Abuja. At the end they gave each of us N5,000 , while in the second visit , we were discharged with N10,000. At a time we contributed foods that were handed over to our leaders to take down to Abuja for our daughters in their custody.  So there is nothing the government has done for us. If you subtract what we have given them from what they have given to us, they have given us nothing,” he said. “ Some of our members whose daughters are still missing have died because of trauma,” he added. He called on government to expedite action towards the release of the remaining 112 girls to save the lives of the agonising parents. Rachael Daniel is the mother of Rose Daniel , one of the remaining 112 Chibok school girls still in the custody of Boko Haram terrorists. According to the widow, who lost her husband, Ardo Abana , a serving policeman who fell to the terrorists’ bullets in 2009 while on duty in Dikwa local government area of Borno State, life has not been easy since the abduction her daughter. She added that the pressure of running the family’s needs singlehandedly, in addition to the trauma of her missing daughter, has been heavy on her. She confessed that, till today, the whole story of her missing daughter is still like a dream which she hopes to wake up from one morning  to behold her daughter. She said: “I have cried and cried but, most importantly, we are begging government to look into our plight . We are now living like mentally deranged persons because of the trauma of our missing daughters. “ Some people are even seeing it as if we have sold our daughters out. Government should ensure the quick return of our daughters. There is no place we have not taken our cry to,” she said. On his part, Bitrus Yana, father of Ruth Bitrus who is among the remaining 112 in the custody of the terrorists, alleged conspiracy in the kidnapping. According to him, his daughter had wanted to return home on evening of that day of the incident but was stopped by the vice principal from leaving the school. “On the eve of the kidnapping, my daughter wanted to come home , but the principal prevented her. They locked them up in the hostel before the invasion by the Boko Haram terrorists. To me , the whole thing is like a setup. Government has not done well for us,’ he said. Solomon Maina is the father of Deborah Solomon, one of the 112 Chibok school girls still in Boko Haram custody. He said every hope they had in government for the rescue of the Chibok school girls still under Boko Haram had been lost due to many failed promises. Maina said: “From the beginning, we had hope in the government , but after many failed promises , we lost hope in the government. It is not out of place for government to come out openly and tell the world that, actually, that they have tried their best but the thing is beyond  their power. “ But government has not come out openly to make such statement, and allowing the girls to stay long with these terrorists will expose a lot on the side of government. “ Again, if the government is very serious about any negotiation, they would have been involving us the parents. Therefore, it is time for government to allow the international community join hands in the search for these girls.” For Ayuba Alamson, whose cousin, Deborah Solomon and other relatives are still in the hands of the terrorists, government has failed the people by not living up to its numerous promises. “I served as whistle blower from the beginning. I was the one that raised the alarm over the kidnap of the Chibok schoolgirls. My sister and other cousins were among the girls that escaped from the moving truck on the day of the kidnap, but I still have a cousin,  by name, Deborah Solomon , daughter of Solomon Maina who is still missing, apart from other relatives. “It is unfortunate that a country like Nigeria that is considered as the giant of Africa, with all machinery on ground, always lives on empty promises. After all the promises made by government to the world that our girls will be released, 112 of them are still missing till today. “ It will surprise the world to hear that these 112 girls, including Leah Sharibu , the Dapchi school girl which we consider to be part of our girls, are still in captivity after numerous promises from the government. It is really unfortunate,” Alamson said.  UNICEF Laments Continued Detention Of Chibok Schoolgirls, Others By Boko Haram The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has called for stringent effort towards the protection of children’s rights, lamenting that more than 3,500 children have been recruited and used by non-state armed groups in north-east Nigeria since 2013.