The Assistant Inspector General of Police in zone 6, Musa Kimo on Thursday charged officers and men of the force not to deviate from the dictate of the police but to behalf in line with the dictate of the force. He –] warned miscreants against incessant killing of innocent Nigerians saying that the police would no longer take it lightly with miscreants who take delight in slaughtering their fellow countrymen for unjust reason.  The AIG further warned officers and men of the force to desist forth with from indulging in any act of indiscipline as the force will no longer take it lightly with any of his men found wanting.  Kimo, gave   the warning while decorating twenty-one newly promoted officers of the zone stressing that the officers would henceforth be held responsible for any act of indiscipline exhibited by men of the force under their auspices.  The AIG, stressed that the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu in his magnanimity made the promotion with the belief that those who benefitted from that exercise would have no choice other than to live up to the tenets and objectives of the Police. The police boss maintained that with the elevation much is expected from men and officers of the force saying that the police authority would do all within it powers to ensure that officers put in their best in the course of discharging their duties. “Like the popular adage goes,to whom much is given much is expected”. The AIG said.  In his words Kimo said, “I have known the Inspector General of Police for about thirty-three years and I know that he believes in promoting worthy officers.  But the police hierarchy is not happy that the force is in the news always for all the wrong reasons. We must change the narrative and not allow Nigerians to die innocently because of us,” the AIG said.  “If we behave well, majority of Nigerians will be happy with us.  Be professional about your job.  It is one thing to be promoted and another to work harder, and ensure that you protect your rank.  If you don’t, anything can happen.”  The AIG lauded  the Inspector General of Police for  lifting the worthy officers, and hoped that those promoted will justify the gesture.  Two of the officers were promoted from the Inspector rank to Assistant Superintendent of Police, two others were promoted to Superintendent of Police while about seventeen were promoted to other ranks. 