As Nigeria joins other countries to observe this year’s African Vaccine Week (AVW), the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) has disclosed that in six months’ time, Nigeria will be declared polio-free. Executive Director of NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaib made the disclosure  yesterday, at a press conference in commemoration of  the 2019 AVW, in Abuja. “Because we have been innovative and creative with routine immunizations, we are now at a point where we are just some six months away from being declared polio-free in Nigeria. “Working together with partners, traditional, religious, political, and opinion leaders, we have achieved improvements in routine immunization coverage rates from 48% in 2015 to 57% in 2018 as revealed by the recent SMART survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics,” he said. Dr. Shuaib also commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Ministry of Health, saying that their commitment have  resulted in un-precedented improvement of immunisation coverage in the country. “Immunization is critical for building a resilient health system under the visionary leadership of Buhari, and the strategic and policy direction of the minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole. For the first time in Nigeria we are seeing a consistent and compelling improvement in the number of kids we are reaching with lifesaving vaccines. We have surpassed all historic expectations in immunizations.” On the celebration of this year African Vaccination week with the theme “Protected Together: Vaccines Work”  he said the theme emphasizes the need for collective responsibility and inclusive participation of all in mobilizing human, material, financial, technical and logistics resources needed for implementation vaccination activities, in order to promote the health of children in Africa. Dr. Shuiab urged parents and caregivers of children to make available the kids for vaccination to prevent disease epidemics and early death, assuring that all vaccines used in the country are WHO and NAFDAC certified.