The programmed production of new vehicles that led to the introduction of the 2013 Auto Policy by former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to produce the desired results as the nation’s economy bleeds, YUSUF BABALOLA writes In 2013, the administration of ex- president Goodluck Jonathan reviewed the Nigeria Automobile Policy to encourage local manufacturing of vehicles and discourage importation of cars as well as gradually phase out used cars (popularly known as Tokunbo cars). However, since the introduction of the policy, the automotive industry has continued to retrogress with government losing huge amounts of revenue. The policy makes provision for commercial used vehicles to attract 35 per cent duty without a levy while cars are to attract 35 per cent levy charged on the fully built units (FBU). In addition, a fully built new vehicle pay 35 per cent import duty and 35 per cent levy to customs at the seaports. Also, the federal government gave incentives of zero per cent, five per cent, and 10 per cent respectively to assemble plants who imported completely knocked down parts (CKD), semi knocked down parts I (SKDI) and semi-knocked down parts II(SKDII) to be used by local assembly plants attract. Assembly plants importing FBU for cars pay 35 per cent duty without a levy, whereas commercial vehicles attract 20 per cent duty without a levy, in numbers equal to twice their imported CKD/SKD kits. Abuse Of Incentives The federal government has lost huge amounts of money that would have accrued through customs revenue as vehicle importers now import their vehicles through Benin Republic and smuggle it into Nigeria through the porous Nigerian borders, there have been abuse in the incentives given to assembly plants. For instance, less than 20 per cent of vehicles were actually assembled or even coupled together in Nigeria, because 20 per cent of the components of the automobiles are from Nigeria while 60 per cent are from Europe, Asia and America but no account was made of the remaining 20 per cent thus giving rise to the possibility of smuggling of the parts into the country with government losing huge amounts of revenue. Also, a Roll-on Roll-off vehicle terminal at Tin Can Island Port; Ports and Terminal Multiservices Limited (PTML) is still smarting from the harsh effect of the National Automotive policy. The facility which handled 200,000 units of vehicles in 2012, a year before the policy was introduced now handles a total number of 159,000 units of vehicles in year 2018 and 110,000 units in 2017. According to the general manager, PTML, Babatunde Keshinro, the automotive policy of 2013 drastically reduced the quantity of vehicles getting discharged into PTML. According to him, the ban on importation of vehicles through land borders helped to bring back cargoes to the terminal by 50 per cent. However, he lamented that most of the vehicles are damaged ones. Speaking, Keshinro stated that “I can tell you that as a terminal, we delivered roughly about 159,000 units vehicles of all types in 2018. In 2017, we handled 110,000 units. Things have picked up, but not up to the level we were in 2012 and 2013. These were periods that importation was high for every terminal. We are about 35 per cent down from what we used to have. “In 2015, we had to go through a process of retrenchment. The terminal being a multi-purpose terminal also diversified by embracing general cargo and some other business opportunities within the industry in order to stay afloat,” he said. Dangers Of Importing Damaged Vehicles “This equally brought another dimension into the business and this has to do with the nature of vehicles being imported. What we observed is that we now have more of damaged, accidented and relatively low grade vehicles compared to what we use to have in 2012 and 2013, prior to the implementation of the policy” he lamented. Keshinro stated that the high duty was still there, and for people to be able to cope with the product which is used vehicles, they had to play with the low-end purchases from the countries of origin and this had to do with salvaged vehicles, which are equally older models rather than newer models. “Majority of the vehicles being imported are less than 2010 as their year of manufacture. We expect to see newer vehicles of 2013, 2015, 2017 and 2018, and when I look at the set of vehicles coming into the country in terms of age, you would see fewer 2017, 2018 vehicles. They now appear to be for the super-rich and this shouldn’t be. We should address our mind to the fact these old vehicles add to the environmental issues. Auto Policy Review Meanwhile, the federal government has confirmed that the auto policy needs a review as the assembly plants have repeatedly abused the policy thereby eroding the gains of the policy. Minister of Finance, Hajia Zainab Ahmed who disclosed this in an exclusive chat with LEADERSHIP Sunday, said that auto policy is yet to achieve optimum result and restore the automotive industry for indigenous vehicle production for Nigerians. The incentives of zero per cent, five per cent, and 10 per cent respectively were given to assemble plants who imported completely knocked down parts (CKD), semi knocked down parts I (SKDI) and semi-knocked down parts II(SKDII) to be used by local assembly plants were abused. Speaking, the minister said, “The auto policy is presently being reviewed because neighbouring countries are giving incentives to vehicle importers to bring in their vehicles through their port because of our own rate.” Though, she said the policy was introduced to trigger growth in the nation’s auto sector but the prevailing situation has shown that it has not achieved the desired results. Speaking on the abuse of the special rates given to assembly plants, the Minister said, “we are seeing some abuse in that aspect (CKD special rate), but we have to do a holistic review of the auto policy to get optimum result and the target is to restore the automotive industry so that we have assembly plants being set up again that could lead to actively producing vehicles here in Nigeria for use of Nigerians.” Why Smuggling Abounds The Comptroller-General of Customs, Hameed Ali, had also called on the federal government to reduce the 35 per cent levy on imported vehicles so as to check the rising cases of smuggled vehicles into the country. Ali stated that vehicles imported into the country attract an import duty of 35 per cent and an additional levy of 35 per cent, bringing the total duty payable to 70 per cent, which he said was too high and fuelling smuggling. “The 35 per cent is a baseline which is the duty, but the 35 per cent levy is what we think should be tinkered with. “We should be able to reduce that to a level that it would be affordable. 70 per cent is on the high side, there is no doubt about that for new vehicles but we cannot touch the baseline of the tax regime,” Ali had stated. The Chairman, Seaport Terminal Association of Nigeria (STOAN) Vicky Haastrup, also appealed to the president to return the import duties on vehicles to 20 per cent from the prohibitive 70 per cent tariff imposed by the former administration. She said, “The reversal to the old tariff will serve as an incentive for Nigerians to import legitimately through the seaports and make appropriate payments to government. This will boost revenue collection by the Nigeria Customs Service. It will also lead to the return of lost jobs at the affected ports. “We also appeal to customs officers at the border posts to support the federal government and the NCS leadership by ensuring that no smuggled vehicle finds its way into the country through the land borders.” Haastrup had added that since 2014 when the 70 per cent hike in the tariff of imported vehicles came into effect, Nigeria had lost 80 per cent of its vehicle cargo traffic to the ports of neighbouring countries. “Since the high tariff was introduced, importers have resorted to landing their vehicles at the ports of neighbouring countries and smuggling them into Nigeria without paying appropriate duties to government. This amounted to huge revenue loss to customs. LCCI’s Way Out Also, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has called for the immediate review of Nigeria’s automotive policy in the light of its copious shortcomings. Import tax [duty and levy] of 70 per cent on new vehicles should be reduced to 35 per cent. Import tax [duty and levy] of 35 per cent on commercial vehicles should be reviewed downwards to 25 per cent, while that of used cars should be reviewed from current 35 per cent to 25 per cent. The LCCI who blamed the over 400 per cent increase in the price of vehicles in the last six years on failure of the auto policy, said import substitution strategy thrives in the context of high domestic value addition. A statement signed by its director-general, Muda Yusuf, said  “It is within such a framework that the economy could benefit from the inherent values of import substitution, which includes backward integration, multiplier effects, conservation of foreign exchange, jobs creation and reduction of import bills. The review would be a relief to the private sector from the logistics perspective; more jobs will be restored in the automobile industry; smuggling will reduce and activities will snowball in the maritime sector. The LCCI official said Car assembly plant will be better off with a five per cent duty on SKD; welfare effect on citizens will be positive; vehicle affordability by the middle class will improve; transportation sector will benefit and smuggling of vehicles will reduce drastically. He said “The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), and ports’ terminal facilities will be more optimally utilised for better revenue performance; and customs revenue from vehicle imports will improve considerably.” Incompatibility With NIRP Yusuf also said the six-year-old auto policy is not sustainable in its current form, as it was not in consonance with the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP), which was the main industrial policy document of the present administration. “The NIRP espouses the strategy of resource-based industrialisation. Five years into the implementation of the auto policy, not much progress has been made, even though over 50 Vehicle Assembly plants licenses have been issued. Total annual sales of new cars in 2017 and 2018 were estimated at less than 10,000 units,” he added. It also impacted people’s welfare, government’s revenue and capacity to create jobs, adding, “The policy has also penalised compliant stakeholders in the sector with extant rules, taxes and tariffs applicable to the automobile industry.” Views Of Clearing Agents However, Clearing agents operating at the nation’s seaports have joined other stakeholders to call on the federal government for a downward review of the national automotive policy, saying that it was fuelling massive vehicle smuggling. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday, national president of the National Council of Managing Directors of Customs Licensed Agents (NCMDLCA), Lucky Amiwero, said that government should review the nation’s automotive policy in line with the international standard. The body said the development was killing most businesses and investments in the country. Worried by the negative implications of the policy on the economy, the body urged the federal government to consider the appeal in line with the campaign promises made to the masses to make life meaningful to them. NCMDLCA noted that the present automotive policy had resulted in huge loss of customs’ revenue to government that depended on the seven per cent collection from import duty. Also, the licenced agents noted that there were massive smuggling, due to high demand of motor vehicles in the country as a result of non-availability of affordable domestic production to meet up with domestic demand. The association also decried high cost of purchase of vehicles in the country, due to the increase of tariff from previous duty rate of five per cent,10 per cent, 20 per cent and 35 per cent to the present rate of 35per cent to 70 per cent on all imported vehicles as against what obtains in the neighbouring West African countries. The development, the association stated, has led to the diversion of motor carrying vessels to neighbouring West African ports. Looking Forward As Nigeria struggles with non-availability and affordability of the domestic vehicle productions, lack of mass transit vehicles in the country and huge demands for vehicles for movements, the federal government needs to move fast to review the auto policy. Government will also do well by addressing deregulating and encouraging private sector investments in the railways and waterways transportation services, thus reducing the penchant for importation of heavily damaged vehicles and trucks, which are taking a toll on the nation’s roads and highways.