A group, known as North West Alliance for Danjuma Goje, an amalgamation of various youth associations in the region championing for the election of the former Gombe State governor as Senate president has emerged. A statement issued after its meeting in Kano, the Chairman, Northwest Alliance For Danjuma Goje, Comrade Jamilu Ibrahim Maikarofi said the group finds it necessary to drum support for Goje in view of his achievements and experience. “As the 9th assembly is about to be inaugurated, we want to voice out our choice for the job of the Senate president, who is no other than the amiable Sen Muhammad Danjuma Goje.” “It will be a great disservice to the nation if we keep mute while the wrong person is about to be foisted on the nation by some vested interests, which have recently showed their aversion to the core values of governance that President Muhammadu Buhari stood for in their absence to welcome him in Lagos recently.” “We choose to stand by Senator Goje because of his sterling qualities which he has exhibited in all the state and national assignments handed over to him. For one, his numerous achievements in steering the affairs of Gombe state are too numerous and well known to many, which we believe will be replicated once he emerged as Senate president.” “Also, as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, we believe he has garnered enough experience to steer the affairs of the next Senate in the right direction for the overall general development of our great country,” the group said. The youths said they believe Senator Goje will use the experience he has as a former executive governor for eight years to ensure a smooth relationship with the federal executive in the next dispensation, and also use the eight year experience he also has as a federal lawmaker to ensure good understanding and mature relationship among the members of the Red Chamber. “The North West Alliance for Danjuma Goje is ready to mobilise the teeming youths of this geopolitical entity to storm Abuja in their thousands to solicit for the election of Danjuma Goje as the next Senate President.” “We believe his election will usher in a more experienced hand at the helm of affairs of the Senate and the nation will never regret his election as the president of the senate. We are therefore against any attempt by the ruling party to foist somebody who we believe is incomparable to Senator Goje in terms of political sagacity, experience and intellectual capacity.” “We wish to remind the incoming as well as the returning Senators that they have nothing to fear in the person of Senator Danjuma Goje, because it is well known that he has worked tirelessly and religiously to ensure the victory of the President, the governorship candidate and all others who vied on the platform of APC in Gombe state, making him the only Senator to defeat an incumbent Governor of another party hands down in a free and fair election.” “As we eagerly await the day when the former Governor will heed the call of the stakeholders in the Northeast, North West and North Central and other well-meaning Nigerians to contest for the presidency of the Senate, we wish to announce our unflinching support for this candidacy,” the statement added.