The Nigerians Citizens Association in South Africa (NICASA) says an unidentified gunman has killed another Nigerian, Mr Tony Elochukwu, from Nnobi Anambra State, in South Africa. The President of NICASA, Prince Ben Okoli, said this in a letter sent to the Consular General at the Nigerian Consulate in Johannesburg. Three Nigerians have been killed between April 6 and 9, at different locations in the southern African country. In the letter, obtained by News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Saturday, Okoli decried the death and continued killing of Nigerians in South Africa. “We received yet again, the sad news of the death of another Nigerian in Witbank Mpumalanga province. “Mr Tony Elochukwu from Nnobi Anambra State, was shot twice in the head by an unidentified gunman on April 24, at around 2:45pm,” he said. Okoli said that a lone Nigerian man walked to some Nigerians at a restaurant and inquired from them where to get some weed to smoke. He said those standing, however, told him that they did not know where to get substance to smoke since they do not smoke. Okoli said the man then pulled out his gun and shot Elochukwu on the head and sped off in a car parked down the street. He added that NICASA Chairman in Mpumalanga, Mr Obeji Chukwuma, had opened a case of murder at the police station. “This looks like another case of Nigerians killing themselves. This ugly trend of Nigerians killed by fellow Nigerians is on the increase and is disturbing to our community. “NICASA is deeply worried over the death and continued killing of Nigerians in South Africa. “People are worried and scared, since none of the perpetrators have been arrested or charged,” he said. He appealed to the consulate to pressure the South African police to pursue the case of the death of any Nigerian with seriousness. “The South African police must stop attempting to encourage this killings by lack of investigation and prosecution but aim to bring to justice, every criminal involved in these heinous crimes,” he said. The Consul General, Nigerian Consulate Johannesburg, Mr Godwin Adama, had earlier condemned the killing of Nigerians at different locations in the country. “It is clear that as much as any form of criminality and xenophobic attacks against foreigners, including Nigerians in South Africa is condemnable, the killings do not fit into xenophobic attacks.’’