As part of efforts to boost micro businesses’ access to credit and speed up financial inclusion in the country, the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) said it will refurbish over 2000 to its outlets across the country use by the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB). According to the Postmaster General, Adebisi Adegbuyi,  106 NIPOST outlets have already been selected for the first phase of the rollout of the NMFB branches across the country. Speaking at a two-day seminar for finance correspondents in Gombe at the weekend, Adegbuyi who was represented by NIPOST Director, Finance and Investment, Usman Shaba noted that the move was in line with the drive for financial inclusion. Stating that “it is unfortunate that for a long time the role of the post office was not fully appreciated” he said the investments made by the government in postal outlets all over the federation in times past would now be put to use to reach the unbanked. “A lot of Nigerians are unbanked and these unbanked people are mostly in the rural communities and these postal outlets will be leveraged upon to promote financial inclusion in the unbanked communities. So what NIPOST is doing essentially is to improve on these outlets. Over 2000 of them nationwide to make available as outlets for the commercial banks and in particular the NMFB. “Prior to this, the CBN having looked at the infrastructural spread of NIPOST have granted NIPOST a super-agent licence which makes it possible for NIPOST to render financial services on behalf of virtually all the commercial banks in Nigeria. “NIPOST is very ready to deliver the 106 outlets that the NMFB has targeted for take-off. NIPOST officials along with NMFB and CBN have gone through all the regions of the country and the reason why we even selected the 106 is to make sure that each of the outlet we selected are good enough and ready,” he stated. On his part, CBN director, Corporate Communications Department, Isaac Okoroafor noted that the agreement with NIPOST and the Bankers Committee was to ensure that credit gets to micro business and the financial inclusion drive is enhanced in the rural areas. He said the CBN under Godwin Emefiele had set out to fund the real and micro sector with direct credit “we tried it with the banks with the CRR and we thought by giving banks more money that they will lend to the real sector but we discovered that this money went into the foreign exchange market. “So going back to the table again, we came up with this innovation. We were able to discuss with the bankers committee to let them ease some of their profit into this funding and then we set out to find an ingenious way of transmitting this into the targeted SMES. It is also connected to our drive of the financial inclusion because we believe that if we can fund the micro bank subsector and we are able to direct credit to these people and you link it up to our payment system development. Then our strategy to  “All these measures are converging at the point of the small person, those who occupy the base of the pyramid, those who can produce to make money and transform their own lives. Our shared agent network which aims at mobilising 500,000 agents across the country, our payment system, the mobile banking, the mobile money, the MFB all of them come together to ensure that  jobs are created at that level, that poverty is alleviated and more and more people are moved from the informal sector through financial  inclusion.  “So we are working with NIPOST that has the infrastructure, we are working with the Bankers Committee that has intentionally and willingly  provided part of their profit and unleashing these resources on all those people at the base of the pyramid.”  Also, group head, Commercial Banking at Access Bank, Femi Oluwatosin who represented the Managing Director and Chief Executive of the bank, said “the partnership coming from the banks is to facilitate the movement of credit. The assurance that we have this time that this financing will reach to the grassroots is the fact that the CBN has been saddled with the responsibility to open branches aggressive branch opening so that this fund can be accessible through the MFB that has been created by the bankers committee.