The Easter Season is here again and the four-day holiday is always agog with festivities, musical concerts and an array of other programmes including wedding ceremonies. ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM AND SAMUEL ABULUDE sought the views of entertainers and celebrities on how they intend to spend the festivities. Tee Mac I will have a very busy Easter holiday. Starting from Friday, I will have a family dinner, then on Saturday there is a youth talent show in Lekki that I must honour. A jazz night at the Lagoon restaurant is the place to be for me on Saturday. Then on Sunday, I will be going to the beach with some friends and the juniors in my house to enjoy ourselves and enjoy the coolness and the atmosphere of beach parties and get-together. On Monday, I will be working in a recording studio on a new song and by Tuesday, I have to travel  for  business to Benin. I wish everyone a blessed Easter and all the good people of Nigeria and the music fraternity. Peace is all we need. Best regards.  Terry G My Easter celebration will be spent with my family. Though I also have some performances on Saturday and Sunday, I will spend the rest of the times indoors cooling off and enjoying the holidays with my family and friends. Easter is a great moment for me as a Christian and my career had been this fruitful because of God’s grace despite my sins and unfaithfulness. I will be releasing some singles soon. My Dan should watch out.  Shan George I am currently on a film set. I am filming a movie project by my film academy, Divine Shield Film Academy in Calabar, Cross Rivers State. And it is unfortunate we may not be done before Easter. So we will enjoy our Easter rice and chicken on the movie set. Happy Easter Celebrations.  Queen Blessing Ebigieson I am spending the Easter with my family and it is going to be a very quiet one as we are still busy moving from the old house to the new one even though the house warming get together was last Sunday, April 14th which was my birthday. We are still struggling to finish packing so on Easter Sunday; we will go to church to thank God for all He has done for us.  On Easter Monday, my son and I will go and see a movie and it will be an opportunity to bond before he goes back to school for another three months. We would also use the Easter weekend to give out all the things we don’t need anymore to the needy because I believe in using every opportunity to make people smile in my own little way.  Abay Esho I desperately need a break from the Lagos’ hustles and Ikogosi Warm Springs at Ekiti State has it for me this Easter break. I hope to use opportunity to cool off before heading back to work in Lagos amidst its hustle and bustle. Easter is a period to reflect on the sacrifice of Jesus Christ.  Fidelis Duker Easter is a season of sober reflections and a period where as Christians you celebrate the resurrection of Christ and his ascension into glory. So for me, I will travel to Lagos from Calabar to spend time with my family and friends. It will also afford me the opportunity of having some time to do some more writings on my soon to be released book.  Orlando Julius/s Latoya Aduke Easter season is always a great season for us to unwind and celebrate with our family and friends. This year we will be having a gig ‘Easter With Orlando Julius’ at the town hall of the Oba’s palace, Egboro of Ijebu-Ijesha. And it promises to be great as my cultural Troupe I have raised for a year plus now. I welcome all who want to see OJ & I perform  come to Ijebu-Ijesha and see us live. Happy Easter to you all.  Mike Nlian The Easter break is a great time to unwind and I will be attending a series of events this weekend. I am attending a pastor friend’s birthday on Sunday and also I will also attend the premier of Chico Ejiro’s new film, ‘Night Bus 2 Lagos’ on the same day.  Uzee I will be on location shooting and also doing other stuff with friends. You know as an actor, we don’t rest.