Corruption has always been a central theme in every pre- election rhetoric in Nigeria. In this report, ORJIME MOSES looks at the task and the promises before this administration in the next four years The much anticipated 2019 general election has come and gone, and President Muhammadu Buhari will continue in office for the next four years. In the President’s re-election campaign, his anti-corruption achievements were a major theme as he and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) spared no energy to remind electorates of the 16 years of  corruption the country suffered under the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The effectiveness and efficiency of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and the Whistle blower policy were pointed out. In the last four years, attempts by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to arraign some prominent judges for corruption. The suspension, removal and conviction of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Walter Onnoghen also jolted the polity to the reality of the anti-graft crusade. Onnoghen’s removal was however not without controversy as the opposition saw it as an attempt to stampede the judiciary into doing the bidding of the APC. But even before the Onnoghen saga, a lot of high profile cases were filed in court involving top members of the former ruling party, PDP. Two former governors, Sen Joshua Dariye of Plateau State and Jolly Nyame of Taraba State were convicted and sentenced to jail under this same administration, even though the cases were initiated by a past administration. In the build up to the 2015 general election, President Buhari’s campaign message were war on corruption, security and the economy. The narrative resonated with Nigerians and even the international community. On assumption of office as President on May 29, 2015, he reinforced his promise to make anti-corruption drive a central pillar of his national revival strategy, and many Nigerians keyed into the idea in the believe that corruption under the then Goodluck Jonathan regime was undermining both the economy and security of the nation. Although Buhari has an unblemished record when it comes to corruption but after four years in power, there are those who have attempted to poke holes in his anti-corruption war, nonetheless. While they argue that it is biased against the opposition members, they taunt this administration for not being able to secure any high profile convictions in cases it had initiated. The opposition, while stating their support for fight against corruption, are usually quick to attack moves by government, perhaps hoping to gain political mileage. However, minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, said that it will be unfair for Nigerians to measure the government’s achievements in the fight against corruption by the number of convictions it has secured, underscoring that there is much more to the fight against corruption than convictions which are also crucial. He said President Muhammadu Buhari was elected in 2015 after emphasising his track record of tackling corruption and his pledge to stop public officials from looting the country’s treasury , after he rightly declared: “ if we don’ t kill corruption, this corruption will kill us . ” That Buhari has backed his commitment by putting in place some important measures such as the Treasury Single Account, the whistle – blowing policy and the establishment of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption , to combat the systemic theft of public resources and by extension , its pernicious effects on human rights and development. Apart from the TSA, the Whistle-blower Policy is one of the main tool the government believes has been efficacious in the fight against corruption, making public officials sensitive about conducts that may led to their indictment and conviction. Therefore, this policy encourages people to voluntarily disclose information about fraud, bribery, looted government funds, financial misconduct, government assets and any other form of corruption or theft to the Nigeria’s Federal Ministry of Finance. A whistle-blower who provides information about any financial mismanagement or tip about any stolen funds to the ministry’s portal is rewarded or entitled to 2.5 percent to 5 percent percentage from the recovered funds by the Nigerian government. The policy was launched on December 21, 2016 and facilitated through the Federal Ministry of Finance. It was reported that within the first two months of the Whistle-blowing policy in Nigeria, that Nigeria’s Federal Government recovered over $178 million that were stolen. By June 5, 2017, Federal Ministry of Finance received a total of 2,150 tips from the public, 128 tips came through the website of the ministry, 1,192 was through phone calls, 540 through SMS and 290 through email to the ministry. By July/August 2017, a total of 5000 tips was received. In October 2017, the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu said that N527,643,500; $53,222.747; GBP21,222,890 and Euro 547,730 was recovered since the policy was launched. What’s more, between January and August 2018,  the EFCC recovered N106,516,222,383.68; USD -1,635,925.81-GBP- 629,193.65; EURO- 25,575.00. The special adviser to president on media and publicity Femi Adesina said that in President Buhari’s second term there is no joke for anti-corruption war. People with itchy fingers, past and present, will continue to fall in trouble, and probity and accountability will remain the order of the day. Honesty remains the best policy. “All these, and more are what Nigerians can look forward to in the legacy epoch, which is the second term of the Buhari administration. And by the time the term ends, the country would never be the same again. The joy kiln will be kindled in the hearts of the people, and they will leap for joy. These are promises you can take to the bank. “There was a time we had been told that stealing was not corruption. But behold a new dawn. Every form of stealing was being punished, and all malefactors, both high and low, were being hurled before the courts, and thrown into jail and this second will be the same,” he added. The Project Manager of Budgit, Abayomi Akinbo, had at a gathering centred on ‘Fostering Citizen’s Support for the War against Corruption in Nigeria,’ organised by CLEEN Foundation, a non-governmental organisation, remarked that the trust and confidence of all Nigerians in President  Buhari and his administration could only be rousing if monies recovered from looters are disclosed, and such looters named. The executive secretary of the Anti-corruption and Research Based Data Initiative (ARDI), Dennis Aghanya said that he fully recommended Mr President on the anti-corruption initiative which has now reminded the public officers that they should be careful in handling public funds. ARDI, a civil society organisation, was behind the petition to the Code Of Conduct Bureau (CCB) over non-declaration of assets by the convicted former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). However, Aghanya while commenting on the way forward said, “I must confess that the anti-corruption posture of President Muhammadu Buhari encouraged me and my organisation to go all out in our anti-corruption advocacy. “Previous administrations would have used instruments of authority to suppress our petition against former Justice Onneghen to the CCB, but this administration rather took it up and followed it to a logical conclusion. “Sincerely, fighting corruption in Nigeria is a herculean task. Corruption has eaten very deep into the fabrics of the society. So when you set out to fight it the society perceives you as one who have set out to fight their source of income, ethnic & religious interest and /or  other ulterior motives. I pity Mr. President. He must be going through hell in his resolve to battle corruption in the country. But he should not relent,” he stated. Aghanya stressed that Nigerians needs to support Mr President and that is exactly what him and his organization, ARDI, are doing. Gradually Nigerians will begin to feel the positive impact of the fight against corruption by this administration. According go him said, his organisation remains committed to working with Mr President in fixing the country without the fear of intimidations and threats arising from their petition against Onnoghen. He added “we are further into more high profile investigations against individuals and institutions. Very soon you will hear the outcome of such investigations.” A writer, Blogger from Enugu State, Julius Davids said it’s remarkable that the anti-graft war has remained topmost priority of the President since 2015. He recalled that in 2016, President Buhari, in a town hall meeting with Nigerians living in Addis Ababa Ethiopia identified Nigerian judiciary as a major cog in the wheel of his anti-corruption crusade. “Before Mr. President`s statement, it was a common knowledge that there is a lot of buying and selling in the Judicial circle, but who was bold enough to `bell the cat`?” He said this is where civil society institutions like those that expose personalities who commit graft come in. “For Mr. President`s anti graft war to be rooted, he needs such fearless and purposeful anti-corruption activist/crusader in his next cabinet or rather should head one of most sensitive Parastatal. “Such committed citizens should not be left untapped from their wealth of experience and knowledge, he added. Julius noted that even though the United states, UK and other countries are fully committed and have endorsed the anti-graft war, we seriously need proactive thinkers who have shown capacity, technical and investigative knowledge to head one of the ministries.