The United Nations deputy secretary-general, Mrs Amina Mohammed has advocated the availability of funds through public budget and incentives for the private sector in order to combat climate change. She stated this while presenting the 2019 report on ‘Financing for Sustainable Development’ at the UN Secretariat building New York. The report is the result of collaboration among 60 entities from the United Nations system and beyond, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. According to her, “We also need to combat inequalities using public revenue and expenditure policies, and also through shaping trade arrangements and regulating the financial sector.” She stressed that gender issues were also addressed in the report as the entire policies, legal frameworks and programmes needed to promote women’s rights and the empowerment of women and girls. The UN DSG commended the task force that produced the report, which she described as an important mechanism for the UN to engage in a substantive dialogue with other international institutions. She noted that the secretary-general, Antonio Gutteres, had pointed out that the world cannot achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) without a fundamental shift in the international financial system, meant to address urgent global threats and restore trust in international cooperation. She disclosed that achieving sustainable development and combating climate change required long-term investment, adding that public and private incentives needed to be aligned with long-term sustainable development. Mohammed hinted that there was the  need to harness the potentials of innovation to strengthen development finance, adding that about 500 million people had gained access to financial services due to financial technologies.  She was optimistic that the introduction of financial technologies led to low cost, prepaid or pay-as-you-go viable business models in energy sector, thereby improving the progress on the SDGs. The UN DSG said though technologies are laced with risks that needed to be properly managed, that the report was a reminder on the focus of regulatory frameworks to highlight underlying risks, including from the growth of financial technologies. She emphasised that the issues were highlighted in the secretary- general’s strategy for financing the 2030 agenda, which spelt out targets for enhancing sustainable investments at regional and country levels. While pleading with international community and countries to implement the report’s recommendations, she opined that global economic growth peaked at about three per cent even as growth in wages slowed down to 1.8 per cent, being the lowest in more than a decade. Mohammed lamented the increased inequality, saying that about 30 developing countries were in debt distress, while aid levels were stagnating and falling short of commitments. She stated that private investment levels in developing countries were lower than they were in 2012, stressing that climate change continued to threaten sustainable development in all regions. The UN DSG noted that while foreign direct investment flows to developing countries increased in 2018, they remained unevenly distributed and largely by-passed many least developed countries. The deputy scribe lamented that the  current challenges reinforced the need to urgently adopt national and global approaches to financing sustainable development and fulfilling the promise of the 2030 Agenda to leave no one behind. She revealed that the multilateral system was under strain in a rapidly changing global environment, a situation that forced the global community to revisit existing multilateral arrangements while providing opportunities to make multilateral institutions fit for purpose. Mohammed suggested that rather than  retreating from multilateral cooperation,  countries must strengthen collective actions aimed at addressing global challenges in support of sustainable development.