The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lieutenant General Yusuf Tukur Buratai yesterday disclosed that the Nigerian Army is employing maximum intelligence in her efforts to contain all forms of insurgency particularly in the hinterlands.  General Buratai stated this yesterday in his address  to declare open the Nigerian Army Infantry Corps Conference 2019 in Jaji with the theme:.Leveraging land power for current and future warfare; The utility of combat arms.  He further informed that the  Nigerian Army is also moving very hard to finally sanitize the.bordering countries where some of the insurgents uses to carry out their neferous activities.  General Buratai however stressed the need for all hands to be in deck in achieving total victory against all forms of insurgency and criminality in the country.  According to the Army Chief, the fight against insurgency, armed banditry and other forms of social vices should not be left for traditional leaders or security agencies alone, but should be a collective responsibility of every well meaning NIgerians.  ” Bandits or insurgents don’t come from the moon, they are everywhere, go to markets to make purchases, interact with people every now and then, hence the need for information  and intelligent gathering and sharing to help achieve the required results.  ” The Nigerian Armed Forces will continue to discharge her duties in the protection of the territorial integrity of the country.  “The change in the Nigeria Army and its innovation are quit outstanding. With Our collective effort with other security agencies, we were able to deal decisively with the Boko Haram insurgences.  “Today we have the full initiative in collaboration with the members Multi National Joint Task Force countries, we are working hard to ensure that we finally sanitize the northern part of Borno, our border fringes with Niger, Chad and Cameroon. Within the hinterlands, some of them are still hibernating in the remote areas, they are planing and we are also planning to counter them.  “We will ensure that we employ the maximum intelligence required to contain those within the hinter land. Terrorism is quite a complex phenomenon and situation that requires a more comprehensive approach, which comprise in totality of government, and the involvement of every individuals in the country. If this is done, we will be able to contain insurgency at anytime it rears it’s ugly head.  “It cannot be left to the traditional rulers, local government Chairmen, state governors or the federal government institutions like the military, police or the Armed Forces alone. It is the collective responsibility of everybody.  Every individual and society has a role to play.  “This criminals, insurgents including the bandits that are causing havoc in the North and other parts of the country don’t come from the moon, they all live in the society, they go to market , motor parks and they also buy food stuffs in different areas where they are produced and they interact with people. If the overall populace sees it as their own responsibility to support government and security agencies, it means we are going to resolve every security issues in the country.  “The armed forces have done their best but we must continue to preserve the territorial integrity of our country and defend her from external aggression and any form of internal security challenges”.  Earlier in his welcome address, the Commander Infantry Corps Major General SO Olabanji said the conference was an opportunity for the infantry family to interact and brainstorm on contemporary issues affecting the nation in general and Nigerian Army with particular focus on the roles of the infantry in the scheme of events.  Also speaking, the Special Guest of Honour  Major General AA Mshelbwala (retired) gave a mentoring talk on buckling up for the uncharted tomorrow.