Prof Joshua Ogunwole, Vice-Chancellor, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State, in this interview with DUSTAN AGHEDO, spoke on the university’s cardinal principles to drive entrepreneurship amongst students  as well as the institution’s commencement of robotics and mechatronics engineering studies. Excerpts. What are the cardinal principles upon which Bowen University stands and how have they helped in achieving its goals? The principles on which the university is built are enumerated in our core values, which include Godliness, Excellence, Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Social Responsibility. These are the core five values on which everything the university stands for, for what it hopes to become and where it is going. While the university runs on these cardinal principles, the management tries as much as possible to instill them into the students. Looking at our motto: Excellence and Godliness, the forefathers believed that there is no sustainable excellence you can have if it is not on the foundation of Godliness; you may excel but it will not be sustained. Another very important core value is the area of entrepreneurship. There are no jobs in Nigeria or to rephrase it, the country have not been able to prepare its young people for the jobs of tomorrow. We feel strongly that it is the responsibility of Bowen, as a faith-based university to think about tomorrow, to position the people for tomorrow and help them to be able to achieve their dreams. And one of the ways we intend doing that is through entrepreneurship. It’s all about developing ideas, which will address present and future challenges. And there is nothing you can do tomorrow if you are not innovative. Today, technology is evolving because of innovation and we see innovation as critical to bringing out the best in our students. Now, the power of innovation is enormous and this is the age for those young people to begin to think innovatively and that’s why innovation becomes critical in whatever Bowen is doing, creating an environment for innovative, critical thinking and be able to challenge issues. Also, in all of these, we ensure that our students are responsible to the society they live in, empowering them with social responsibility skills, which is also one of our core values. How do you leverage technology to impart learning amongst students? We are aware that technology is evolving and it comes with lots of advantages in a teaching and learning environment like the school system, and we are taking those advantages into cognizance in developing our students. For us, the application of technology is critical to bringing out the best in students. We have used technology to redefine the way students study on campus and it is helping the students and the lecturers to achieve more. Under my watch in Bowen University, I will ensure that the students have learning facilities that are driven by modern technology and I will allow the students to have access to modern technology tools, including smartphones that are android-based. This is because, I have since come to realise that we must promote technology among the students to able them learn faster. The fact is that this present generation of students are tech-savvy and our teaching methodology must take cognizance of that to bring them up to speed in the learning process. This generation of students do research with their technology devices that are connected to the internet and they prefer reading information on their devices, than going to read same information on any notice board on campus. So, we understand all of these and we are leveraging technology to enhance learning. Do you have plans to have a technology hub that will enhance virtual learning amongst students? We are working towards achieving virtual teaching and learning so that anybody from any location within or outside the country can teach students on a real-time basis. With virtual learning, we will be creating a technology-based school environment. We are currently talking with friends of Bowen University to support the university in building a technology hub for the university that will enhance virtual learning amongst our students. Through our technology hub, we will incubate great minds and turn their laudable dreams into reality and that is where the world is moving to, through technology advancement. We are also in partnership with science-based organizations within and outside the country that will help us achieve our vision as an academic institution of excellence and high repute. Considering your vast array, knowledge and research on agriculture, how does technology play a part here especially with students who don’t seem to involve much in agriculture? Many students do not engage in agriculture because the agriculture we are pointing at the student is peasantry, a bit primitive to their age, and does not look like a business. If we don’t address these three, we would be wasting our time. These young people of students think business, they tax what they think. They are better investors than their fathers in a way they think. Maybe, the challenging economic period and so on over the years have actually primed them to think in this term. There is no way agriculture can be interesting to a student if it is the same implement that was used many years ago that you are presenting before him. But when you begin to put precision into agriculture, talking about agriculture that is computer based, we are talking about agro-innovations, then you will get their attention. They want a situation where they can automate the entire system. So, when we begin to put artificial intelligence (AI) to aid agriculture, you will get the attention of these young people and that is why from next session, Bowen University is starting Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering. What we want to face is artificial intelligence where the robots does most of the exercise. What are the motives behind your entrepreneurship and innovation week conference? It was the maiden event for the university and we are going to make it an annual event going forward. It is something big where we would be using technology to drive it. The focus is to develop the entrepreneurial skills of the students, irrespective of their disciplines, which is one of our core values as an academic institution. It will expose students to various skills learning in the areas of textile design, fashion design, cinematography, robotics, cosmetics, events planning, amongst others and all these will be driven by Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). This features talks and practical learning in entrepreneurship and technology innovation and the idea is to build the competence of students outside of their course work in the university. We want to achieve mastery of skills among the students and at the same time raise students who will graduate to become entrepreneurs, who will create jobs for themselves and for others who will be employed by them. We are using it to prepare our students for the job market that is ahead of them so that as soon as they graduate from the university, they will not populate the number of job seekers, but instead populate number of employed Nigerians. There is disconnect between university graduates and the industry. Most times the industry players have to retrain young university graduates to cope with the required industry skills. What are you doing to address this? We are very much aware of industry demands and we at Bowen University are teaching our students with modern curriculum that will help them acquire skills that are required for the present and future jobs. The American universities have been able to perfect marriage between their students and key industry organizations known as Fortune 500, and this has helped them to do a lot in the area of research. We are aware of all these and we are doing same to fully equip our students with the realities and demands of the industry. Immediately our administration came on board, we identified the industry needs and immediately stepped into action to achieve these needs for the students while they are still under our care. What we did was to go to Lagos to partner key organizations to understand their needs and to tell them of our challenges and to see how we can partner to better the lots of the students as they are leaving the university. The partnership is such that the organizations will send their staff to us to interact with students and identify ways that they could be of help to us in addressing the universities and industry’s demands. So we are spending more time to change all of that and to change the old record of our university in terms of modern skills acquisition amongst these young generation of students.