Gabriel Ozovehe is the co-owner of Bijou Cafe Restaurant and Spa, a new entrant in the hospitality and entertainment industry. The beautiful edifice located in Wuse 2 is sure to wet the appetite of fun seeker in Abuja. In this interview with ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM, he speaks on the exceptional treat patrons would get when they visit Bijou Cafe Restaurant and Spa and why they are different from others. What’s this edifice all about? Bijou Café Restaurant and Spa is a home away from home. It is a resort we are creating for customers , clients and other people to come around and feel the ambiance. This edifice has various facilities like the restaurant which is the fine dinning with the mixture of different cuisines like the continental, French and Thai. Then there’s a SPA area for relaxation, rehabilitation and for nourishment. There is also an area we call the woodshed which consist of a Bar and lounge outside where you can experience nature , drinks and grab a Burger , chips or maybe after work you are looking for a place to to relax. And then we have the gaming centre upstairs which included the VR (Virtual Reality), Xbox , play station 4 where people can come for an affordable ultimate gaming experience. It is a collective service we are rendering here and it is a facility based centre, so that it can satisfy the needs that everyone have. How affordable is this lovely place because I know lots of people would want to come and have a feel? It is very affordable because what we try to do is , we have actually done our market analysis and we noticed that all these things people crave for in other places are very expensive. Like here what we try to do is meet you in between,that’s half way. The taste of the food and what we are doing here is an exceptional experience. Even the taste and the ingredients, everything is so specific. And like you already know, there are places you go to and get a continental meal for higher price, you can get it here for a moderate and affordable rate for everybody and the working class around the Wuse metropolis. If you come around you can just breeze in and enjoy the ambiance and get quality food at an affordable price. It’s a place away from home basically. What caliber of people do you expect to patronise this place…is it open to everyone? It is for everybody as long as you are a working class, the middle class the hard working people. The people who are working and just want a relaxation spot to cool of a hard day’s job. A place where they can get just like an experience but affordable. We also have like a classification like the lounge is for those who want premium service. And we also have the woodshed which is like for an after work and even for meeting hangout. It cuts across all facet of hospitality. You know Wuse 2 is known for its conglomeration of different entertainment centre , joints and what have you. What are significant difference are you bringing that would keep your competitors on their toes? Class! We are bringing in class. We are not money driven even though money is the basic purpose of establishing this place. We are trying to accommodate everybody’s dream into this. We are moving on a passion based pathway. We are giving people a service, facilities, something they will enjoy. We don’t even look at our competitor as competitors because we are in a different ball game from them. We are not just a restaurant, this is a resort. It is an experience. You come here while having your Café, you go up for testament, Pedicure, manicure. You have an headache after work, you can pop in for 10minutes for a rehabilitation session. Late night you want to play game or you want to rent a place that has Netflix and chill, we have it here. We offer free WiFi here. This is just more than just a restaurant here ,it is an experience. I saw some kids around playing some games, does that mean you also have a place for the children? We have a place for children. For instance you come here and you are having your Spa treatment, pedicure, manicure, you should be rest assured you don’t have to give your kids to a baby sitter or leave them at home. You kids could be playing a VR game, watching some movies , cartoons, Netflix and other here. We have all these cream pies and other sumptuous pies. So it cut across everybody. I learnt you haven’t officially opened this place, what should we be expecting at the grand opening? The opening is going to wow everybody. There would be a lot of decorations , lots if ascetics, the razzmatazz from the best DJs Budweiser which is one of our brands and partners would activate the event for us. It would be entertainment and fun. There would be lots of free champagne, free gifts and promos. Like which top celebs are we expecting to grace the event on the day? For now we don’t want to reveal that. We just want to surprise our guests. Sooner we would publish that on our flyers. We are talking to few A list artistes, some of them are coming into town already. And we also have some few dignitaries that are coming to grace the occasion. It’s a power packed event. So what should a first timer expect from Bijou Café, Restaurant And Spa? They should expect the best. Best reception, best management, best internet services. The thing is they shouldn’t come with an expectation because we would blow their minds. Everything is going to be working.