The Benin Electricity Distribution Company, BEDC Electricity Plc (BEDC), has connected the residents of Omozogie in Uteh Community, Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of Edo State to the national grid after years without electricity supply. The commissioning of the substation which took place at the weekend started with a town hall meeting organized by the community which had in attendance BEDC management team led by the Head, Community Relations Officer, Mrs. Virginia Osineme, business manager of Ikpoba Hill, Mrs. Ekaete Ntukidem and her Business Head Distribution, Engr. Mamah, the Odionwere, electricity committee members and residents of Uteh Omozogie community. The meeting was meant to brief the residents on need to see the substation as a collective responsibility which should be protected against vandalism and all other forms of energy theft. Addressing the town hall meeting, the head, Community Relations, Mrs. Osineme said “The protection of the substation is everybody’s business. If there is no light, you know who to meet and talk to. If you see anybody in the substation that is not authorized by BEDC and the electricity committee, he or she is a vandal and should be apprehended”. Osineme also seized the opportunity to educate the people of Uteh Omozogie community on basic safety tips on the need for proper earthing of their premises, the importance of engaging licensed electricians to wire their houses and the need to avoid substandard electrical accessories. She pleaded with the community leaders to work with BEDC to educate the children, youths and their wives on the importance of electricity safety and also help disseminate the safety tips. Ikpoba Hill Business Manager, Mrs Ekaete Ntukidem commended the community members for their patience throughout the process of connecting them to the national grid. According to the Business Manager, meters have been properly installed and functional to provide the customers with fair and transparent billing. “Please, ensure no new wire is connected illegally to the network, we will know because of the check meter attached to the transformer, vend as at when due and don’t allow electricians to tamper with the transformer,” she said.