As early rains, which is most often occasioned with storm return, ANAYO ONUKWUGHA (Port Harcourt) and Moses Ojieme (Abuja) report on the level of preparedness among Nigerians and measures already put in place to prevent or manage unforeseen natural disaster. As early rains, which is most often occasioned with storm return, ANAYO ONUKWUGHA (Port Harcourt) and Moses Ojieme (Abuja) report on the level of preparedness among Nigerians and measures already put in place to prevent or manage unforeseen natural disaster. Rainfall takes the centre stage from the birth of a new year in Nigeria, moving from the south to the east and often getting to the northern part in late May and June. Although the country is yet to get into the month of May, Nigerians are already experiencing heavy rainfall accompanied by windstorm, leading to the destruction of property valued at millions of naira or even more. In early March and April, for the two times it rained, residents in some parts of the FCT had to count their losses resulting from flooding and windstorm and some in other parts of the nation’s capital suffered same fate in subsequent rain that fell. Two weeks back, many people were rendered homeless and property worth millions of naira destroyed in Akoko area of Ondo State as a result of the heavy rainstorm that wreaked havoc in the state. The heavy rainstorm, which lasted for almost one hour led to the destruction of several vehicles and giant billboards as well as roofs of old buildings in the area. This was coming few weeks after property worth millions of naira were destroyed by rainstorm in different parts of Osogbo, the Osun State capital, following rains that started at about 7:10pm and last for about two hours. The affected areas included: Oke-Baale, Gbonmi, Isale-Osun, Kelebe, Ofatedo, Igbona, Oke Onitea and others as the rainstorm pulled down electric poles, brick fences as well as building roofs. Wood and containers were blown away, while traffic was obstructed by electric poles, which fell on the Kajola Street at Balogun in Oke Bale area. Although no casualty was recorded, many residents were seen leaving their buildings, as their roofs were blown off by the rainstorm. On May 7 2019, residents of Ilorin, the Kwara State capital were visited with pains, anguish and loss of property, following a heavy down pour that was accompanied with rainstorms which blew away houses and damaged several properties worth several millions of naira. Apart from the residential buildings damaged by the rainstorms, some schools within Ilorin metropolis were also affected, especially Queen Elizabeth Secondary School where some part of the school’s rooftops was blown away. The case was not different in some communities in Edo Uzanu, Anegbete, Agenebode, Osuemegbe among others along riverine communities in the state. Within that same period, many residents of Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital were thrown into utter misery and confusion following heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm that wreaked havoc in some parts of the city damaging properties running into millions of naira. Several occupants of vehicles ran out to save their lives and watched helplessly as trees and billboards and electric poles uprooted by the rainstorm smashed their vehicles. Also the roofs of older buildings in the state capital were not spared as they were destroyed by the rainstorm while major roads were blocked by fallen trees, billboards and electric poles. Apart from private buildings, roofs of public institutions, including that of the Port Harcourt Polytechnic were destroyed, forcing the school management to suspend its semester examination. A large portion of the structures at the Military Hospital, Port Harcourt, was destroyed, as tree uprooted by the rainstorm smashed vehicles and destroyed buildings inside the facility. In Taraba, Wakili local government, no area fewer than 304 houses and other properties, including ninety six electric poles connected to the national grid, were destroyed as a result of the rainstorm. Although it is widely agreed that nature most times cannot be controlled, from all the incidents recorded, it is obvious that properties destroyed in the rainstorms where roofs of houses that have not been renovated or attended to by their owners for a very long time. Findings also proved that some of the areas affected by flood were areas where drainage systems had been badly managed due to indiscriminate dumping of waste. A survey carried out showed that most property owners, including government, find it difficult to renovate the roof of their houses even when they know that the quality of the roof is degenerating due to old age. In Port Harcourt for instance, 80 per cent of the buildings located within Diobu, a densely populated area of Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, according to findings by LEADERSHIP Sunday revealed that pre-Nigerian civil war buildings have not been renovated ever since. However, one of the landlords, Abiye Ngeribo, said efforts were by landlords in the area, to begin the renovation of their buildings before the rainy season steps in. Ngeribo, who denied allegations that landlords encourage their tenants to block drainages with wastes, said wastes seen in the drainages around Diobu area, which could lead to flooding, are traceable to traders at the nearby Rumuwoji (Mile One) Market. He said: “We are doing our best as landlords in Diobu to get our buildings in order before the rainy season steps in. From the stories we have heard, only roofs that are old are the ones that are easily blown away by rainstorm. In fact, we will be ready before the rainy season steps in. “On the issue of blocking the drainages with wastes, it is not from us or our tenants. In fact, we have a rule that anyone caught throwing wastes into the drainages, especially during downpour, will be penalised. We have evidence to prove that the wastes seen in drainages are from traders in the market. In Abuja, checks along City College showed that some drainages are locked with plastic wastes and sand. Although some tenants who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday, were seen evacuating a particular water channel to provide open passage for erosion. When LEADESHIP Sunday visited Jikwoyi, Gwagwa- Karimu axis of the FCT, findings showed that most houses in these areas have not been renovated since they were built decades ago. ‘‘A lot of these buildings are still standing today due to overcrowded houses that serve as windbreak, if not none of us would be living here by now’’, said Andy Onekpe, a resident in Jikwoyi. ‘‘There was a time I told my landlord that ants are invading part of the roof and his response was that I was not the only one having the issue. I was shocked that even when I told him that I will work on the house myself and such could be deducted from my rent, he refused’’, said Andy. Indications showed that during most rainfalls, a lot of accidents are recorded on the roads due to the inability of the drivers to see clearly. Such ugly scenarios are most often believed to be caused by non-functional windscreen wipers. Most of those involved in accidents during the rainy season are commercial buses and taxis, who pay less or no concern to the functionality of the wipers on their vehicles even with the risk associated with it. A car owner who doesn’t want his name on print said his wiper mechanism had been faulty even before the last rains ended and has yet to take it to an auto electrician. ‘‘I know the importance but laziness and procrastination will not allow me to do what is right. This thing (wipers)has been there for almost seven months now, but I managed it till it finally stopped working’’. A taxi driver, who identified himself as Ifeanyi, said although the wiper is sold at N200 each, he finds it difficult to replace the damaged wipers in his vehicle. He however said having known the dangers associated with driving in the rain without a functional wiper, he will do the needful ahead of the rainy season. Flood is another disaster that comes with heavy rainfall, that has also negatively affected a lot of lives across the country during rainy seasons. According to an expert in Applied Meteorology and Environmental Management, Professor Akuro Gobo, the cause of flooding could be classified in two- natural and man-made causes. For instance in Rivers State, majority of the cause of flooding in parts of the state are man-made, which include building on drainages and creeks, as well as blocking of drainages with wastes. In Port Harcourt, flooding increased in parts of Old GRA, Diobu and D/Line where the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) had started the construction of its office in the state capital, sited very close to the right of way of Ntawogba Creek. Also, flood has taken over the Nkpolu-Rumuigbo axis of the East-West Road, in Port Harcourt, forcing residents and shop owners to abandon the area, simply because the community conspired and sold a nearby burrow-pit to a private developer. The case is not different in Mile One axis of Ikwerre Road in the Diobu where after two hours of sustained rainfall, the whole area is threatened by flood due to indiscriminate dumping of refuse by traders in the nearby Rumuwoji (Mile One) Market. It was observed over time that many residents and others doing business in the state, are in the habit of dumping solid wastes into drainages and water channels, thereby inhibiting free-flow of water. Only recently, Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, directed relevant government agencies, including the Rivers State Waste Management Agency (RIWAMA) to take immediate remedial measures as well as embark on regular checks of major canals, creeks and waterways in the flood-prone areas in the state, though the contract was said to have been revoked due to the lukewarm attitude of the contractors. The government had frowned at the continued depositing of solid wastes into gutters and waterways by residents worsened by the refusal of the de-silting contractors to evacuate the wastes from the gutters early enough, as a result of which they erode back into the gutters, causing avoidable blockage of these gutters and waterways. Following some disaster recorded after early rains in some parts of the country, Director General, Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMET), Prof Sani Abubkar Mashi had warned that, though there might be delay of rain due to climate change, the country might witness an increased rain fall. ‘‘Impacts of climate variability and change are evident to all of us, as manifested, even recently in 2018. Many states were subjected to floods and severe storms with attendant loss of lives and properties’’. At the recent Uk-Nigeria Climate Finance Accelerator workshop in Lagos, the Minister of Environment, Alhaji Suleiman Hassan, who spoke with newsmen on the 2019 environment outlook for Nigeria Climate Change, said information about desertification is real and it is posing a serious challenge. He also noted that Erosion is real, and that the Federal Ministry of Environment had designed a new map with the ‘Erosion and Watershed Management Agency’ and the Bio-Diversity Management Agency playing critical roles in the environment space. Speaking further he called for an attitudinal reorientation for Nigerians on why they should keep a neat environment and understand effective waste management procedures. He agreed with the fact that intense human activities have created an adverse effect for the environment, to which the Ministry is committed to addressing. On the concerns of flooding, he said the actions of citizens not clearing their gutters, dropping refuse indiscriminately on canals and waterways has contributed to the cases of flooding. The Minister reassured Nigerians that the Federal Ministry of Environment is working with States, to ensure that the nation does not experience ravaging floods, during the rainy season.