President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday joined other world leaders to condemn the deadly terrorist attack in Sri Lanka, where 207 people were confirmed dead and 450 others injured. The explosions were targeted at churches and hotels as Christians marked Easter Sunday. Eight blasts were reported, including at three churches in Negombo, Batticaloa and Colombo’s Kochchikade district during the Easter services. The Shangri-La, Kingsbury and Cinnamon Grand hotels and one other, all in the capital, were also hit by the terrorists. In his reaction to the blasts, President Buhari expressed shock and sadness over the terrible attacks on several churches and hotels in Sri Lanka on the holy day of Easter. On behalf of the government and people of Nigeria, the president in a statement issued by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, extended deepest condolences to the families of those killed in the attacks and wished the injured speedy recovery. Buhari said: “We stand with the victims of terrorism all over the world because we know and understand this harrowing inhuman activity.” Noting that Nigeria stands with the people of Sri Lankan at this terrible moment, the president urged the authorities not to spare the wicked elements behind these mischievous attacks. A national curfew has been put in place “until further notice” and social media networks have been temporarily blocked. A Sri Lankan foreign ministry official said that at least 27 foreign nationals were among the dead. The country’s prime minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, acknowledged that “information was there” about possible attacks. “While this goes on we must also look into why adequate precautions were not taken,” he said. Eight people have so far been arrested in connection with the deadly blasts, Wickremesinghe said. “So far the names that have come up are local,” he said, adding that investigators would look into whether the attackers had any “overseas links.” He has also called for an emergency convening of the nation’s parliament on Monday. Other world leaders expressed shock and condemnation over the deadly blasts. The United Nations (UN) secretary-general said he is “outraged by the terrorist attacks” in Sri Lanka. A statement by the spokesman for Antonio Guterres noted the “sanctity of all places of worship” adding he hoped the perpetrators will be quickly brought to justice. President Donald Trump condemned the “horrible terrorist attacks” and said the US offered “heartfelt condolences” to the Sri Lankan people and stood ready to help. India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the “horrific blasts” and said his country stands with the people of Sri Lanka. “Strongly condemn the horrific blasts in Sri Lanka. There is no place for such barbarism in our region. India stands in solidarity with the people of Sri Lanka. My thoughts are with the bereaved families and prayers with the injured,” Modi said on Twitter. Pakistan also condemned the attacks. Prime Minister Imran Khan said Pakistan “stands in complete solidarity” with Sri Lanka. Its foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Faisal also issued a statement condemning the explosions. German Chancellor Angel Merkel said: “Terrorism, religious hatred and intolerance cannot be allowed to win.” “We’re horrified by the news that Christians in Sri Lanka were attacked and killed during Easter services,” wrote Merkel’s spokesperson on Twitter. “We mourn them and pray for the injured and their family members.” British Prime Minister Theresa May also decried the attacks. “The acts of violence against churches and hotels in Sri Lanka are truly appalling, and my deepest sympathies go out to all of those affected at this tragic time,” May said on Twitter. “We must stand together to make sure that no one should ever have to practise their faith in fear.” The British high commissioner to Sri Lanka said the UK government understands that “some British citizens were caught in the blasts”, but it was too soon to say how many. James Dauris urged Britons to get in touch with family members to let them know they are safe. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called the attacks “an assault on all of humanity”. The Turkish foreign minister also condemned the deadly attacks, which broke a nearly 10-year lull in major attacks since the end of the civil war on the South Asian island nation. The European Union (EU) commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker expressed his “horror and sadness” after the deadly Easter Sunday attacks ripped through Sri Lanka. “It was with horror and sadness that I heard of the bombings in Sri Lanka costing the lives of so many people,” Juncker said on Twitter, adding the European Union stood ready to help. “I offer my heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims who had gathered to worship peacefully or come to visit this beautiful country,” Juncker said. EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the attacks marked “a truly sad day for the country and for the world”. “Such acts of violence on this holy day are acts of violence against all beliefs and denominations, and against all those who value the freedom of religion and the choice to worship,” she added in a statement. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern condemned the “devastating” attacks. In a statement, Ardern referred to the March 15 shootings at two mosques in the New Zealand city of Christchurch in which 50 died. “New Zealand condemns all acts of terrorism and our resolve has only been strengthened by the attack on our soil,” Ardern said. “New Zealand rejects all forms of extremism and stands for freedom of religion and the right to worship safely.” The New Zealand Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade says 115 New Zealanders are registered as being in Sri Lanka but more are likely to be there. There is no indication New Zealanders are among the victims. Russian President Vladimir Putin also denounced the attacks as “cruel and cynical.” In a telegram of condolences sent to his Sri Lankan counterpart, the Russian leader said Moscow remains a “reliable partner of Sri Lanka in the fight against international terrorism”. He added that the Russians “share the grief of the relatives of those killed and wish a quick recovery to all those who were wounded” after the Easter Sunday blasts. Putin voiced confidence that “the perpetrators and the masterminds of such a cruel and cynical crime committed amid the Easter festivities will take the punishment they deserve.” Pope Francis said that “I learned with sadness and pain of the news of the grave attacks, that precisely today, Easter, brought mourning and pain to churches and other places where people were gathered in Sri Lanka,” Pope Francis told tens of thousands of people in St. Peter’s Square to hear his Easter Sunday message. “I wish to express my affectionate closeness to the Christian community, hit while it was gathered in prayer, and to all the victims of such cruel violence.” Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif shared condolences. “Terribly saddened by terrorist attacks on Sri Lankan worshippers during Easter. Condolences to friendly govt & people of Sri Lanka,” Zarif said on Twitter. “Our thoughts and prayers with the victims and their families. Terrorism is a global menace with no religion: it must be condemned & confronted globally.” Three Gulf nations condemned the bombings – Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates – all of which issued statements via their foreign ministries over the attack. Qatar said it wanted to stress its “firm stance on rejecting violence and terrorism.” The UAE called upon “the international community to close ranks and uproot the scourge of terrorism in order to ensure international peace and security.” Bahrain said that “these acts of terrorism are incompatible with religious principles and human and moral values.” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expressing “deep shock” over the deadly attacks. Netanyahu issued a statement saying “Israel stands ready to assist the authorities in Sri Lanka at this difficult time”. The prime minister said “the entire world must unite in the battle against the scourge of terrorism”. The nationalities of 11 foreigners killed in the blasts have been verified, Sri Lanka’s foreign ministry said. They include three Indians, one Portuguese national, two Turkish nationals, three British nationals and two holding United States (US) and British nationalities. The British high commissioner to Sri Lanka said the United Kingdom (UK) government understands that “some British citizens were caught in the blasts” but it is too soon to say how many might have been affected. James Dauris urged Britons to get in touch with family members to let them know they are safe. Two Turkish citizens were among those killed in bomb blasts at three churches and four hotels in Sri Lanka, according to Turkey’s state media Anadolu. The Turks were engineers working on a project in Sri Lanka, Anadolu reported. One Chinese national was killed during the attacks on Sri Lankan churches and hotels on Sunday, Chinese state newspaper People’s Daily said. Earlier, reports said that four Chinese nationals were injured, but were in a stable condition in hospital. The British high commissioner to Sri Lanka said the UK government understands that “some British citizens were caught in the blasts” but it is too soon to say how many might have been affected. James Dauris urged Britons to get in touch with family members to let them know they are safe. Two Turkish citizens were among those killed in bomb blasts at three churches and four hotels in Sri Lanka, according to Turkey’s state media Anadolu. The Turks were engineers working on a project in Sri Lanka, Anadolu reported.