The Supreme Court Justices have refuted reports of a split over the exit of the immediate past chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, describing them as false and misleading. Speaking on behalf of the Justices, the director of press at the Supreme Court, Mr. Festus Akande, yesterday, said the Supreme Court is one big, indivisible family that is not, in any way, governed by religious, tribal or parochial influence or sentiment. ‘’The judicial oath taken by all the justices of the Court has already initiated a potent sacred bond to regulate and conscientise the conduct of their lordships in the discharge of their judicial functions’’, he said. The apex court’s reaction seems to be a response to reports in some media that loyalists of the suspended CJN were unhappy at the way the man was treated and were planning to take on certain persons within the Supreme Court administration who they perceive as having helped to frustrate Onnoghen out of the system. LEADERSHIP recalls that Justice Onnoghen had on Friday resigned from office shortly after the National Judicial Council (NJC) forwarded its recommendations on the petitions against the suspended CJN to the president. Justice Onnoghen had been facing trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal on charges of asset declaration violations, for which he was later suspended from office by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 15, this year. The matter, however, assumed a political dimension as the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) squared off over the matter, with the ruling party calling for his resignation and the opposition party describing his suspension as politically motivated strategy by the APC to perfect the rigging of the general elections by removing Onnoghen and putting in place a pliable judiciary head in the event that the presidential election contest end up in the apex court. However, a civil society group, the Coalition for Good Governance and Change Initiative, has described Justice Onnoghen’s resignation as belated and an insult to Nigerians. National coordinator of the group, Comrade Okpokwu Ogenyi, said in a statement yesterday that the controversy surrounding Onnoghen’s trial had succeeded in battering the Nigerian judiciary before the embattled jurist quit. ‘’The Coalition for Good Governance and Change Initiative frowns at such unwholesome behaviour by a supposed Chief Law Officer of the country in dragging the reputation of the judicial arm of government in the mud,’’ Ogenyi said. APC Accuses PDP Of Blackmailing Apex Court Justices Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), of making subterranean moves to blackmail Supreme Court Justices over the exclusion of APC candidates from the just concluded elections in Rivers State. The APC said that, contrary to the statement of the PDP, the apex court had not made any pronouncement on the exclusion of its candidates from the elections in the state. It warned the PDP to stop feeding Nigerians with fiction and to concentrate on the real issues. The PDP had, on Sunday, expressed worry over alleged  plans to invalidate the outcome of the governorship election in Rivers State  which was won by its candidate and incumbent governor, Nyesom Wike. The party had claimed that the acting chief Justice of Nigeria Justice Tanko Muhammad, was being pressured by the APC to reverse the February 12, 2019 final judgement of the Supreme Court which excluded the ruling party from fielding candidates in the elections, necessitating fresh elections in the state. But the APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu, said in a statement, yesterday, that the governing party was an apostle of the rule of law and would allow the law to take its course, even as he chided the PDP for being in the habit of concocting wild allegations. The statement reads: “We read with dismay the nonsensical statement by the opposition PDP against the APC and two senior serving cabinet members – minister of transport, Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). “While the APC has no intention to join issues with the PDP over its fictional and concocted allegations against the party and its leaders, we are, however, well aware of the PDP’s intent to hoodwink and deceive the public and, most importantly, intimidate and blackmail our eminent Supreme Court justices into doing its bidding in respect of the matter of the purported exclusion of Rivers State APC candidates from the last elections (which is) before the apex court. “Again, for the purpose of clarity, it needs restating that the Supreme Court has not made any pronouncement on the purported exclusion of APC candidates from the just concluded governorship, National Assembly and State Assembly elections in Rivers State.” It described the opposition party’s action as an attempt to ambush the Supreme Court ahead of its ruling, urging Nigerians to ignore the party’s ‘evil machinations.’ “As always, we shall allow the law take its course in respect of the purported exclusion of our candidates in the elections in Rivers State and we advise the PDP to do the same, rather than overheat the polity with their illogical and false claims,” it concluded. …Abe Loses Appeal On Rivers APC Primaries Relatedly, the Supreme Court yesterday in Abuja  struck out an appeal filed by Senator Magnus Abe praying the court to make pronouncement on the propriety of the direct and indirect primary elections conducted by the All Progressives Congress APC in Rivers State for the nomination of its candidates for the 2019 general elections. Acting CJN, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, who delivered the unanimous decision of the seven-man panel of justices of the apex court, struck out the appeal on the grounds that the notice of appeal filed by the senator was defective because it did not contain the names and titles of parties in the matter. Besides, the acting CJN also held that the notice of appeal offended section 285 of the 1999 Constitution, because amendment cannot be done to the notice of appeal in view of the fact that the 14 days required by law to file the appeal had expired. LEADERSHIP recalls that Sen Abe had approached the court, asking it to make clarification on which of the two primary elections was authentic in the eyes of the law. However, the APC through its counsel, Jibrin Okutekpa, objected to  hearing of the appeal on the grounds that the names of appropriate persons affected by the suit were not listed on the notice of appeal, thereby making the appeal incompetent and defective, an argument the court agreed with.