When the Ethiopian Airlines flight ET 302 Boeing 737 Max jet plunged into a field outside Addis Ababa on March 10, killing all 157 passengers and crew, it brought into focus the carrier’s decades-long relationship with plane manufacturer, Boeing and again its relationship with the public which constitute a critical mass of its customer base. But preliminary investigations on the incident showed that pilots flying Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 repeatedly performed all of the aircraft manufacturer’s procedures, but could not control the Boeing 737 Max 8 before it crashed. The pilot had reported technical difficulties after takeoff and asked for clearance to return to Addis Ababa. The findings was part of a recent preliminary report on the tragedy by the Ethiopian Transport Ministry. The disaster was the second such crash of a Max 8 jet in less than six months, and raised fears about the model’s automated software, prompting the worldwide grounding of all similar planes currently in service. The report said the Boeing 737 Max 8 had normal certification and the crew was certified for flying this aircraft and had the necessary training. The release of the report is based on wreckage retrieved from the crash site, including the jet’s flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder, which were taken to Paris for analysis Transport officials in Addis Ababa said there were clear similarities between the Ethiopian and Lion Air crashes in Indonesia. Both planes flew with erratic altitude changes and crashed minutes after takeoff while trying to return to the airport. Suspicion has grown over the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS), and sparked US investigations into the certification process at Boeing. Ethiopian Minister of Transport , Dagmawit Moges, said the plane experienced repetitive uncommanded aircraft nose-down conditions. That description, experts echoed had the behavior of  Lion Air Flight 610 — which crashed in October last year shortly after takeoff from Jakarta,Indonesia.Investigators believed MCAS played a key role in that disaster too. Speaking to reporters at a news conference in Addis Ababa, Moges suggested that Boeing review the aircraft flight control system related to the flight controllability. She also said her agency would recommend that aviation authorities verify that Boeing has adequately addressed flight control issues before release of the aircraft to operations. Col. Amdeye Ayalew Fenta of the Ethiopian Accident Investigation Bureau (EAIB) investigation later added that during takeoff, the angle of attack (AOA) sensor was functioning normally. Later though, it fed erroneous data.The EAIB said it had given the report to Boeing. The crash of the Boeing 737 Max 8 prompted the worldwide grounding of all similar planes in service. Fallout from the tragedies has also disrupted the air travel industry. Air travelers have been forced to reschedule canceled flights and airlines are losing money, while their new planes remain parked on the ground until further notice. Ethiopian Not To Blame For Crash Boeing currently continues to face the bulk of criticism especially after revelations that it charged extra for safety features that it now says it would add as standard feature following the crashes. And despite the expression of confidence, there seems to be a chance of fissure between Ethiopian and Boeing as investigations continue. Boeing is facing scrutiny and government probes after those two fatal crashes within months of each other leading to their grounding worldwide. Although the causes of the crashes were yet to be determined, questions have swirled around the plane’s automated system, the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) designed to direct the nose downwards if it was in danger of stalling. The design of the 737 Max is based on a previous version of Boeing’s best-selling 737 model — with the addition of newly- designed engines. These engines are more fuel efficient than previous 737s, but they’re larger, which changed the aerodynamics of the overall aircraft, giving the jet a tendency to point slightly upward. The MCAS system is intended to compensate for this by overriding the pilot and forcing the plane’s nose down, if data from an “angle of attack” (AOA) — sensor indicates the jet’s nose is too high. If the nose is pointing too high the aircraft is in danger of stalling and possibly crashing. Boeing spokesman, Peter Pedraza said, Boeing would  be reviewing the published report as it is released. Yet the fact that the best-selling plane model has now been involved in two high-profile and fatal crashes likely puts pressure on the enduring relationship between the two partners. Industry watchers told LEADERSHIP that it’s unlikely Ethiopian Airlines could easily make a strategic decision to switch from Boeing as its main supplier as the ambitious airline expands rapidly across Africa and globally. According to them, getting to the bottom of things would be crucial given that Ethiopian Airlines plans to work with Boeing, among others, to boost its aviation capabilities and build a new aerospace manufacturing hub. Chief executive officer of Ethiopian Airlines, Tewolde Gebremariam, in a recent interview with The Associated Press at Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, confirmed that the warning and training requirements set for the now-grounded 737 Max aircraft may not have been enough following the Ethiopian Airlines’ plane crash, but he also said that Ethiopian Airlines relationship with Boeing would last well into the future. Gebremariam said the company would work with the US manufacturer and other airlines to make air travel even safer and to make the skies safer for the world. The Chicago-headquartered planemaker is the key supplier to Ethiopian, with the partnership between the two extending to the early 1960s. The ET 302 flight plane that crashed was less than five months old, and Tewolde said they took delivery of yet another 737 Boeing cargo planes of a different model less than a month ago. Tewolde also extolled Ethiopian’s relationship with the US aviation industry, saying their earlier pilots, crew, and mechanics were employees of the now-defunct New York-based airline, TWA. Ethiopian Airlines was originally established after a visiting Ethiopian delegation requested American officials in 1945 to help establish a commercial airline for domestic air service. “Let me be clear: Ethiopian Airlines believes in Boeing,” Tewolde said. “Despite the tragedy, Boeing and Ethiopian Airlines will continue to be linked well into the future.” The carrier is Africa’s fastest-growing with hubs across the continent and a 113-strong fleet servicing 119 destinations worldwide. When the Boeing 737 Max 8 was first introduced, Boeing and the FAA agreed pilots who had flown a related earlier 737 model didn’t need additional simulator training, nor training specifically about the automated system known as MCAS. Pilots qualified to fly the 737-800 only received training that amounted to “an iPad lesson for an hour.” Pilot unions have said that since the Lion Air crash, they have received formal instruction on the feature. Tewolde said in his statement their pilots “who fly the new model were trained on all appropriate simulators.” “In the aftermath of the Lion Air crash, more should have been done from the Boeing side in terms of disclosure, in terms of coming up with strong procedures, stronger than what they gave us,” Tewolde told the Wall Street Journal recently. Ethiopian Airline’s 73-year history can be divided into two phases: the first 60 years, when there was steady if unspectacular growth, and the next decade, when, following the first posted loss after the conclusion of the war with Eritrea, the company enjoyed a strategic turnaround. As a result of a “strategic analysis,” the airline then developed its Vision 2010, “which repositioned the airline” driven by the objective of transforming turnover  from $400-million in 2005 to $1-billion within five years. This was to be achieved by a “revamped network”, with a “morning bank” of about 52 flights to African destinations and an “evening bank” when these, apart  from those west of Togo, would return and go out “again to the Middle East, Europe, Asia and the  Americas.” The airline’s strategy, said Tewolde, is broken up into a number of different pillars: affordability and sustainability, the maintenance of global standards at the lowest possible costs, the maintenance of global standards at the lowest possible costs, infrastructure. “Our mission drives our fleet, which means we need long and range capacity. Diversity is a necessary evil,” he stressed. The final pillar is the integration of the airline’s people, process and technology. Ethiopian’s visionary leaders have to keep a compelling vision for their business, see beyond the challenges of today to an empowering picture of tomorrow, impregnating their team and the organisation itself with this vision and fuelled by inspirations, the organisation charts its course to this new future. Litany Of Awards 2018 was quite a year for the airline as it won several awards including; Company of the Year by All Africa Business Leaders Award; Best Airlines in Africa Award, for the 7th Consecutive year in a row; won Africa Lease Deal of the Year 2018 Award ; It was also voted “Best African Airline” at Arabian Travel Awards; It received ISO Environment Management System Certification; Ethiopian Topped on SKYTRAX World Airline Awards 2018 as  ‘Best Airline in Africa’, ‘Best Business Class in Africa’& ‘Best Economy Class in Africa ’;Won Airline Reliability Award for 7th year in a row;  Won 2018 TripAdvisor Travelers’ Choice Award: “Best Business Class in Africa and Indian Ocean”;  was honoured with APEX Passenger Choice Award 2018 ; Won 2018 Africa’s Outstanding Food Services Award; Received “Fastest Growing International Cargo Airline of the Year” Award. Ethiopian Airlines no doubt is proving to be unstoppable in its plans to take over Africa’s skies. The company last year announced new aircraft purchases valued at around $332 million to help solidify its domestic and regional reach. The order of the Q400 turboprops would expand its Bombardier fleet to 39 and would help reach underserved markets in Africa, especially those with low traffic density routes and small or challenging airfields. The state-owned carrier currently operates 96 passenger aircraft and freighters and has more than 60 fleets on order. That essentially makes it Africa’s largest airline, flying to over 20 in-country locations, 58 destinations in Africa, and more than 100 cities in five continents globally. The recent aircraft deals also showed the carrier had surpassed its own Vision 2025 plans, which stipulated that it operate 100 planes by 2025—forcing it to revise its objectives to “150 or more” planes in the next seven years, according to CEO Tewolde Gebremariam. As intra-African travel improves and becomes more affordable, Ethiopian aims to become the pan-African passenger and cargo network that connects the continent. It has done so partly through strategic investments and partnerships and reviving defunct or struggling airlines like Zambia Airways. The company also manages hubs in countries including Malawi and Togo to spread its footprint and is currently looking to establish more central locations in Mozambique, Chad, and Equatorial Guinea. Ethiopian is also expanding and improving the services of its major international airport in Addis Ababa, and its aviation academy was also recently ranked among the world’s top training centers. The carrier is aggressively expanding its global network, introducing 10 new destinations in just six months in 2018. These include flights to Kisangani in DR Congo, Nosy Be in Madagascar, and Geneva, Switzerland. In March, it dispatched an all-female crew on its maiden flight to the Argentine capital of Buenos Aires. These efforts have put Ethiopian Airlines ahead of other competitors like Kenya Airways and South African Airways, who have both struggled financially and have been bedeviled by strikes and unpaid worker salaries. Truly, at 73, it can only get better and better for the airline that has made Africa proud.