This week, I watched one of the most remarkable feats in sports history unfold; I watched Damian Lillard hit the shot that sent his team into the Eastern Conference semi-finals of the NBA playoffs. To those who don’t know of follow the game of basketball, I am gravely disappointed. To those who love hoops, you know what shot I’m talking about. Lillard, who plays for the Portland Trailblazers, is most likely to make the All-NBA first team this year. He was faced off against Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, who is also likely to make an All-NBA team. It was a fight between the big dogs, in which the two forces of nature collided. Though they play the same position and wear the same number, they happen to have different playing styles, as the sharpshooting Lillard is set apart from Westbrook who is known for his ruthless effort. Lillard hit one of those shots we imagine as a child, walking up to the three-point line, as the shot clock winds down. Although the playoffs are still far from over, and the stakes of him missing that shot were not dire, it was still a meaningful and significant occurrence in the NBA world. This week’s column isn’t a sports one, though it centers on a sporting event. It is more about the mindset and the attitude behind the journey to accomplishment. For the past two years, Lillard’s team has suffered early defeats to the Golden State Warriors and the New Orleans Pelicans. They had also lost their last eight playoff games before this year’s tournament. In the time since then, the debate on the Portland team was whether they should break it up; if the team was simply not good enough. Since then, Lillard and the team have put up another successful regular season, and they have powered through the adversity of many obstacles. Their starting center and defensive anchor, Jusuf Nurkic suffered a broken leg injury a few games to the end of their season. Their shooting guard, C.J McCollum was coming off rehabbing from an injury as well. Since then, they have overcome the great western conference, when they had the excuses set up for them in the event of another disastrous playoff run. They now have a path to the conference finals. What stays on my mind however, is the fact that most people may not pay attention to the hard work that occurs behind the scenes; all they see is the big shot, and not the thousands of missed ones that go up in the practice gym before the big stage. They do not see the leadership and the resilience that they had to fall back on to get them this far. This singular principle applies to us all: the amount of work we all go through in the closing games we find ourselves in, because sometimes we find it significantly easier to look forward to the success and neglect the journey along the way. Sometimes, we may need to chase excellence and the success will meet up with us along the way.