Electronic commerce platform, Jumia, has said its initial public offer (IPO) will be used to boost the company’s Africa operations. Jumia, which recently listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), has linked the listing of its shares on the need to showcase the digital innovation happening in Africa, and opportunities from the region in terms of technology and eCommerce to the world. In an interaction with journalists at the weekend in Lagos, the chief executive officer, Jumia Nigeria, Juliet Anammah, said the firm contemplated many venues, met with lot of investors, but New York seemed the more natural place given the number of investors familiar with the business model. Explaining the reason for the IPO, Anammah said Jumia has been private for seven years, and the management sees a lot of positive aspects to being public, saying that the move is about creating more trust and raising the public profile to help with the business, among others raise the public profile to help bring more sellers to Jumia. “The move is expected to help build even more trust with consumers, in particular, those who are still not comfortable with eCommerce, just as the listing will help with talent recruitment, retention, as it aimed to attract more attention from top talent.” She said the IPO is all primary, and about providing the resources to Jumia, and not to selling shareholders, explaining that the company operates in Nigeria and 13 other African countries, and will never go beyond them. She stressed that Jumia has invested heavily in tackling major infrastructure challenges, including investing in logistics, delivery and has also developed a proprietary online payments technology. Anammah noted that Jumia has international shareholders, like many other companies, saying “We are bringing investors to the African tech scene and building the economy and talent there. Though initially funded by German investors in 2012, we got one of our main shareholders and still do to date MTN in South Africa. “It is amazing that international investors are bringing positive news to the whole tech scene in Africa and for many more startup companies after us. Now that we are public, any African investor is welcome to invest in Jumia.” She added that the company is growing rapidly, in 2018, it delivered Gross merchandise volume (GMV) growth of 63.3 per cent. Revenue from third party sales grew by 121.5 per cent for the last two years, Jumia has also delivered positive platform contribution at group level, and for the biggest market, Nigeria, positive contribution after all fulfilment expenses during the second half of 2018.