The Fulani ethnic group has an enduring culture of carrying and wielding the herder’s stick, largely for shepherding their cattle. But there is more than is known about this multipurpose stick. In this report, YAHYA SARKI chronicles its origin and use. He walks alongside his cattle as they graze, glancing every now and then as the herd moves on after guzzling on patches of grass or leftover fruits. He is careful to guide those cows against going astray with his stick. Most times, he carefully rests the stick on his shoulder as he moves, ensuring that no cow is lost. The Fulanis or Fulbe are one of the ethnic major groups in the Sahel and West Africa sub-region numbering between 38 to 40 million in the world. In Nigeria, the Fulani population is between eight and 10 million. This ethnic group has several distinct traditions one of which is the use of the ‘mystery’ stick by both men and children mainly for the nomadic activities. They place it across their shoulders or wield it while herding their cattle for pasture. In spite of westernisation, the nomads relentlessly hold on to their way of life which they inherited from their ancestors. The Fulanis can be found largely in Adamawa, Kebbi, Katsina, Sokoto, Gombe and Yobe States. However, because of the migratory nature of the nomadic Fulanis, they are virtually found in all parts of the country in search of green pastures return to the north once the weather becomes favourable. Kebbi State which is one of the states in Nigeria with a high population density of Fulanis has 21 local government areas and six of them namely: Bagudo, Suru, Birnin Kebbi,Gwandu, Bunza, and Kalgo have a huge concentration of these herders. This tradition of possessing and wielding the stick was inherited from their forefathers and remains very critical in all aspects of their life, especially their means of livelihood, and in some cases marriage and family. The herder’s stick has a lot of mysteries attached to it. It is seen as a symbol of strength, defence, boldness and maturity. The women folk are hardworking and resilient. To contribute their quota to the family upkeep, they make and sell dairy products, popularly known as “Fura da Nono”; fresh cow milk and cheese cottage called ‘wara’ in the southern part of the country, which is gotten from their livestock. A Fulani woman, Hauwa Julde, 28, comes to Birnin Kebbi from Makera village, a small riverine area daily to sell fresh cow milk and cheese. According to her, each calabash of the milk cost between N500 and N700 depending on the size and period. And the cheese sells between N200 and N1,000. She said: “Most Fulani women in the urban areas engage in hawking of fresh cow milk and cheese. A lot of Nigerians, mostly from the north enjoy drinking “Fura da Nono” as well as putting the cheese in their food.” A Fulani community leader in Birnin Kebbi, Dikkon Gesse Umaru Bayero, 60, who has four wives, and 25 children and several grandchildren, explains what the tradition of wielding a stick means to a nomadic Fulani man or boy. Bayero said: “Let me start by saying that this culture of the average Fulani herder holding and walking about with a stick did not start today. It has come of age as we inherited it from our ancestors. “The major purpose of the stick is for controlling our animals when we go out with them for grazing. We use the stick to direct them and also stop them from trespassing into farmlands and going astray. Even when we go to the pond or river we use it to control the animals. “In fact, whether during the day or at night, the Fulani herder must hold his stick. It is just like how people today hold onto their handsets, both day and night. You see our children grow up to see how their parents use the stick in controlling their animals and they also embrace it,” he said. Bayero added that apart from using it to control their cows, the stick is used as a safety device in case of any eventuality or weapon for protection and to fight. He continued: “Apart from using it to control the animals, we use the stick as a weapon during a fight, we use it to protect ourselves from any attack so that any incoming weapon against us will be blocked. We also have a traditional festival called ‘Sharp’ where we use the stick prominently. “First of all, an announcement is made so that all men and women will gather to witness the contest between our men. It is usually between two persons, one will use the stick to hit his opponent on the chest, once or twice and he will retaliate. This is a show of bravery and endurance in our tradition. “In the case of children, once a boy reaches the age of five or six years he can hold a stick. The size of the stick depends on one’s age, whether a small boy, a teen or an adult. We use knives to peel it to make it smooth, shiny and easy to hold. The youths have their category and also adults, even the kids have the type of stick they use,” he said. He recounted the history of using the stick as a tradition and how it all began. “While growing up this was how we saw our parents use the stick because they were rearers of livestock. It was principally to easily control our cows, but over the years, it has also become a unique aspect of our festivals,” he said. Also, Umaru Bafashi, 53, another Fulani community leader, gave a similar narration on how the nomadic Fulani’s find the stick in both their social and economic lives. He said: “As you know holding the stick by a nomadic Fulani is his way of life. Apart from that, we use it to stop animals from intruding into farmlands. It’s only when you have the stick that you can control them to do what you want, what the gun is to the hunter is what the stick means to the herder. As soon as you raise the stick, the cows will refrain from doing what is wrong. Apart from our tradition, it serves as a good weapon against attack or for protection. Imagine you are in the bush and you see a snake or a wild animal. You can use it to protect yourself and your animals. And during festivals, we use it to dress up, our women too like it, it’s a sign of heroism,” he said. When asked the possibility of this tradition fading away due to westernisation, his response was firm. “No! No! No!” he said, adding that “modernity will never make us change from what we have inherited from our ancestors. We will not change; we will not discard our way of life; for as long as we go about with our animals, our stick is just like what the people of today hold, that is their handset.” Seventeen-year-old Hamisu Jilde who took his cattle for grazing and watering told LEADERSHIP Sunday that he had used the stick for 10 years herding animals. “It’s over 10 years since I started herding cattle with my stick. It gives me control over my animals and helps to guide them. If the animals are fighting, as soon as I raise my stick, they will stop. Without my stick, I don’t feel comfortable, “ he explained. Inspired by this engaging and timeless culture of wielding stick, it comes as a surprise to find that some of these hardworking, culture-centred nomads are accused of abandoning sticks and carrying arms and dangerous weapons in its place. Alhaji Ardon Kalgo is one of the leaders of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, a popular Fulani association in Nigeria. He is also the state Welfare Secretary of the association. Kalgo pointed out that nomadic Fulani’s or herders who abandon their sticks for dangerous weapons like guns, machete, knives and so on, are the bad eggs among them. As there are bad eggs found in every society and tribe. Abubakar Malami Bagudo is the former secretary of Bagudo local government area branch of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association and at present one of the Fulani elders in Bagudo council. He stressed that the Fulanis in Nigeria are known for their culture of carrying sticks, love, and humility, and not violence. He said: “Fulani’s do not engage in mayhem or violence. Anybody caught in such criminality is not a real Fulani. Those that perpetrate the act of killings are not Fulanis even though they dress like the original Fulani by wearing our hats and holding the traditional sticks in disguise as the core Fulanis do.”