The Accountability Lab Nigeria recently held a Friendraiser event to support 10 Nigerians nominated and benefiting from its 2018 Accountability Incubator programme in implementing their ideas. The event tagged ‘A Fusion Of Innovators And Prospective Donors,’ is aimed at giving the participants a chance to pitch their innovative ideas before selected donors for possible funding. The Country Director, Odeh Friday told Leadership Sunday that the Accountability Lab in Nigeria is working to support the anti-corruption fight to make Government accountable and build strong institutions. “With support from MacArthur Foundation, we are working with 10 young social ‘Accountapreneurs’ who are using bottom-up approaches and low cost tools in addressing accountability issues within the society. “The friendraiser is basically to support them in raising mentors, governance experts/ advocates and potential donors who will provide guidance in incubating their ideas through a one year period,” he said. The ten beneficiaries of the Accountability Incubator programme were selected through a rigorous process and are a diverse group from across Nigeria. The group will undergo one year of hands on,  comprehensive support including: training and knowledge building, mentorship, management support and network building where their ideas are being nurtured and refined to address solutions to difficult accountability related issues. According to the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Officer, Omojo Adaji, the Lab supports youth change makers through the Accountability Incubator project, to develop ideas for integrity and accountability in their communities. “The Accountability Incubator is the Lab’s flagship programme for young civil society leaders and social entrepreneurs to build sustainable, effective tools for accountability, participation and social impact. These committed change makers know best how to transform their communities. “Since inception the Accountability Lab has worked on broader accountability issues together with the public sector, private sector and citizens. By enabling people to use information and knowledge to hold those in power to account, we help to unleash positive social and economic change,” she pointed out. Similarly, one of the beneficiaries of the one year programme, Team lead at www.itakeactions.org, Charles Omofomwan told LEADERSHIP Sunday of his mission to mobilise one million Nigerians to take action in demanding accountability and responsiveness from the government in the provision of quality public education in Nigeria. “This is a very tall dream that requires many things to work in my favour and that is why Accountability Lab Incubator has been one of the best things that have happened since I started working on the idea. “The Incubator organises a quarterly intensive training on different aspects of building an organisation from ideation, team building, leadership development, design thinking, theory of change, to resource mobilisation among other areas. These trainings have been very helpful in developing my idea and staying on the cause,” he enthused. He explained that beyond the quarterly training, the lab also provides him with opportunities to share his work and connect with other like-minded social entrepreneurs, potential donors and partners through the quarterly Friend Raiser event. “The fact that the team provides ongoing mentoring and financial support in the realisation of the incubatees ’ work plans during the period of the incubation makes the incubator a perfect one for me,” he averred. Accountability Lab Nigeria, is a non- profit organisation that is building a movement of active citizens and responsible leaders across the country.