Chairman/managing partner, Technokonsult Engineering and Management Consultants Limited, Engineer Ibrahim Khalil Inuwa, has said that training is critical and should be continuous for a research agency like the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) and its institutes. He also lamented the issue of poor funding for the agency, adding that if the proposed 2% from the federation account had been implemented from inception, the agency would have lived up to its expectations of developing the nation technologically. In a statement issued by the head, Media and Protocol, Henry Ukwadia, he stated this when he visited the Advanced Manufacturing Technology Programme (AMT-P), Jalingo as part of his tour on performance evaluation of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) Institutes. Engineer Inuwa also said he was impressed with the achievements of the overall vision of the centre. “I am impressed with what I have seen here, even though you are the least of all the NASENI institutes, but you have done so well in the area of service delivery, collaborations and in machine designs and development-you followed engineering principles,” he remarked. He, however, advised that there should be a strong marketing unit so that after developing these fanciful machines, the centre would be able to cede them to the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Engr. Inuwa, who noted that for a research agency like NASENI and its institutes, training is critical and should be continuous also lamented on the issue of poor funding, adding that if the proposed 2% from the federation account had been implemented from inception, the Agency would have lived up to its expectations of developing the nation technologically. He said: “In the process when the Ministry of Science and Technology then, wanted an agency that will be in charge of science and engineering infrastructure, they set up a 150 member committee of top engineers, scientists, technologists and economists and I was the chairman. We went round Nigeria and interacted with people, we went to Japan, Korea, China, Brazil and other places; the idea was to stop importing machinery and set up an agency and that was how the then Head of State, General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida established an agency of engineering infrastructure that is now called NASENI.’’ Inuwa pointed out that the then head of state, who was also the chairman of the board of NASENI was passionate about the establishment that he immediately released fund and that was how the Scientific Equipment Development Institutes, Enugu and Minna were established. Eng. Inuwa, who said that the expectation was high and thought that by now, the agency would have institutes in every state, lamented that subsequent governments could not sustain the passion, let alone approving the 2% of the federation account, adding that that was the beginning of the problem of the agency, which has hampered its operation in engineering technology and development. “The agency has a specific mandate and we thought that by now, it would have been operating like the Nigerian National Petroleum Cooperation (NNPC) making money from oil, so NASENI should have been making money for the nation through technological innovation, but again, funding has been the fundamental issue”, he retorted. He said staff can only put up their best in research and development when there is a good welfare system. “I want to see NASENI return to the original concept of its establishment in driving the nation’s economy through Science, Technology and Innovation (STI)”, he stated. Earlier, the managing director/chief executive of AMT-P, Professor Mohammed Dauda, lamented on the poor funding of the Centre, adding that from inception, there was no take-off grant or any equipment to start its operation. “Lack of take-off grant was a serious issue, but we were focused  because we have a mandate and a vision to  bring the Centre to its expected objectives; we started with what is known as 4 Zeros- Zero Take-Off Grant, Zero Office Accommodation, Zero Personnel and Zero Advanced Manufacturing Technology (AMT) Facilities, but today, we have been able to impact on the society through: improving farming and related activities, enhancing the capacities and activities of the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), production of spare parts and components for local industries and development of required competence and skills for spare parts and machine production”, he remarked. He also noted that the centre pride itself in a very good mix with about 70:30 technical and supporting staff. Carefully tailored staff development plan that allow both advanced training to Ph.D., Master and Bachelor degree levels while several staff acquired specialized artisan and vocational skills. “This composition has made it possible for the feat that has been achieved and we are already developing relevant skills in the areas such as robotics, artificial intelligence, virtual reality, mechatronics and others and thus staff training become necessary/pivotal to the Centre, but we cannot achieve this with the paucity of fund,’’ he said. Prof. Dauda stated that the secret behind the success in products development are: following engineering principles, testing and quality control, field report and feedback to improve paraded products adding that against this backdrop, several of AMT-P Research and Development output such as Rice and Multi-Grain Threshers and fish dryers have been patented and awaiting ceding to SMEs for mass production and marketing while other products are awaiting patenting. The AMT-P boss also stated that the Festo Authorized and Certified Training (F.A.C.T. Centre), which is one of its core competence area was established to produce critical mass of manpower with competency in Process Automation (Mechatronics) for both the academia and industry in order to acquire new, modern and relevant technical skills that are necessary to fast-track economic and technological development.