The management of Zenith Bank Plc, has announced the redemption of its matured $500 million Eurobond due April 22, 2019. The bank in a statement to investing public on the Nigerian Stock Exchange said that these notes were issued on April 22, 2014 with a five- year tenor at a coupon of 6.250 per cent, under the bank’s $1 billion Global Medium Term Note Program. According to the statement, the bank, leveraging on its strong and highly – liquid balance sheet as well as its outstanding treasury management capability completely redeemed the note using the bank’s available cash reserves. “Over the years, the bank has continued to maintain its deep understanding of the market to sustain its consistent operational metrics of strong liquidity, capital and asset quality ratios which reflects the bank’s robust risk management practices, strong corporate governance culture and a well-articulated corporate strategy.” The bank stated that the outstanding balance of  $500 million of the  $1 billion Global Medium Term Note was issued in May 2017 and will mature in May 2022. The bank in its first quarter ended 31 March 2019,  recorded improved numbers across key metrics, driven by a solid performance in all business segments. This resulted in a profit- before- tax (PBT) of N57 billion, representing a six per cent growth over the N54 billion achieved in the corresponding period in 2018. Also, the Group’s ongoing commitment to cost optimisation on the income statement and statement of financial position ensured earnings per share increased by seven per cent to N1.60 compared to Q1 2018. The growth in net interest income and operating income by 23 per cent and one per cent respectively mitigated the decline in gross earnings. The effective management of cost-to-income ratio, cost of funds and cost of risk offset top-line declines to deliver an enhanced operating income in the period. Going into the rest of the year and with improving economic fundamentals, the bank said it was confident of delivering value to all our stakeholders on our commitments even as we create more opportunities for businesses by supporting them through selective risk asset creation. It added that “We shall continue our investments in the retail segment of the market as we consolidate our leadership position in the corporate segment while maintaining a strong balance sheet.”