The national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has lambasted the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for refusing to allow the party to inspect electoral materials as ordered by the Election Tribunal. Secondus,  who stated  this at a press conference in Abuja, also said that President Buhari’s private visit to the United Kingdom was wrong because he failed to formally write to the National Assembly and hand over power to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He said, “The chairman of INEC has totally refused to obey the court order for our legal team to inspect materials and that means he is looking for the breakdown of law and order. He should obey the rule of law and allow us inspect the materials in obedience to court order.” The PDP chairman also berated President Buhari for embarking on what he called “an unknown voyage”, stressing that the president was wrong not to have written to the National Assembly and for not asking the vice president to take over. We believe that it is against the law; it is not right, and we condemn it,” he said. Secondus claimed that the apparent incompetence of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the handling of affairs of governance had continued to take a huge toll on the nation. The PDP national chairman accused the APC-led administration of exerting all its energies and resources on planning how to undermine democratic institutions rather than giving teeth to governance and addressing the serious national issues of concern like insecurity. He said, “The security situation has been such that prominent Nigerian clerics have been raising serious concern on the issue of leadership, even questioning whether we really have a Commander-in-Chief in this country. “While the Presidency continues to argue that there exists government in our country today, what obtains in reality is different. “The level of bloodletting occasioned by the barrage of criminalities across the country can only be happening in a country without government. “There is no evidence of the presence of government in this country as crimes of all kinds are committed all over the country and Nigerians have never lived in such great fear and trembling for their lives. “From Kaduna to Zamfara, Benue to Taraba, Plateau, Lagos to Enugu etc., bloodletting is continuing unabated. Even the president’s home state of Katsina has lost about eight local government areas to bandits, not to talk of the North East. Secondus recalled last week’s killing of a female  humanitarian worker, Faye Mooney, a Briton, in Kajuru, Kaduna State, adding that  the situation had “deteriorated to the extent that the country can no longer protect the lives of international aid workers who are here to help us clear our mess.” He blamed the continuous bloodletting in Kaduna State on the type of provocative leadership existing in that state, which he claimed was condoned by the federal government. The ‘body bag’ governor in the state does not seem to know how to engender peace among the people; his actions and utterances facilitate  rather than ameliorate the ill feelings among the people,”  the PDP leader added.