The All Progressives Congress (APC), whose candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, won the February 23, 2019 presidential election has told the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal in Abuja, that the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the poll, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is not a Nigerian and therefore not qualified to have contested in the election. APC said that Atiku, Nigeria’s former vice president between 1999 and 2007, is a Cameroonian and not a Nigerian citizen. It, therefore, asked the tribunal to dismiss his petition against President Buhari for lack of merit. In a reply to the petition of Atiku and the PDP where they prayed for the declaration of the former vice president as the lawful winner of the presidential poll, the APC said that the 11.1 million votes recorded in favour of the two petitioners should be voided and considered a waste by the tribunal. The APC’s response was filed by its lead counsel, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), where it faulted the candidacy of Atiku in the election. The party insisted that as a Cameroonian, the PDP candidate ought not to have taken part in the poll of Nigeria in the first instance. Fagbemi averred that Atiku was born on November 25, 1946 in Jada, Adamawa, in Northern Cameroon and is, therefore, a citizen of Cameroon and not a Nigerian by birth. He said that before 1919, Cameroon was administered by Germany and that following the defeat of Germany in World War 1, which ended in 1918, Cameroon became part of the League of Nations mandate territory which consisted of French Cameroon and British Cameroon in 1919. APC further argued that in 1961, a plebiscite was held in British Cameroon to determine whether the people preferred to stay in Cameroon or align with Nigeria. According to the party, while Northern Cameroon preferred a union with Nigeria, Southern Cameroon chose alignment with the mother country and that it was as a result of the plebiscite that Northern Cameroon, which included Adamawa, became a part of Nigeria. It, therefore, argued that contrary to Atiku’s assertion in his petition, the PDP candidate has no right to be voted for as a candidate in the election to the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria held on February 23, 2019. The ruling party averred that by reason of Atiku not having qualified to contest the election, all votes purportedly cast for him and the PDP in the election were wasted votes. Besides the issue of the origin of Atiku, the APC asserted that most of the claims contained in his petition had become statute barred and that the tribunal was not the appropriate forum to entertain same. Specially, the APC said that the issue of educational qualification of the president-elect (Muhammadu Buhari) raised by Atiku cannot be treated by the tribunal because the period for claims and objections on such issues had expired and that the petitioners failed and neglected to use the appropriate period to challenge the validity of the educational qualification of Buhari as contained in the form CF001, submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the general elections. According to the APC, since the petitioners had waived their right to challenge the propriety of information contained in the Form CF001 of President Buhari, their petition no longer disclose any reasonable cause of action. APC also faulted the allegations of non-compliance with relevant laws made by Atiku and the PDP, adding that their failure to make specific references to the compliance issue had a fatal effect on the petition and therefore the petition does not have enough material to justify the ground of any relief sought. Atiku had in his petition with reference number: CA/PEPC/002/2019 faulted the conduct of the February 23 presidential election on the ground of non-compliance with relevance electoral laws and other malpractices such as intimidation of voters, unlawful arrest of his supporters and the harassment by soldiers and other law enforcement of those wishing to vote for him. The former vice president and the PDP claimed to have scored the majority of the lawful votes in the election and prayed the tribunal to declare them as winners of the election. In the alternative, the PDP candidate prayed for an order for the cancellation of the election and another order by the tribunal directing INEC to conduct a fresh one that will conform to relevant laws. But the APC in the reply argued that the failure of Atiku to join the Nigerian Army, the police and other security agencies which were alleged to have performed the harassment and intimidation as defendants in the petition to establish his claim, was fatal to the petition. They urged the court to strike out the claims.