The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) has implored security agencies in the country to investigate the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over allegations that he hired the services of a United States lobbyist firm to advance his challenge of the outcome of the February 23 presidential poll. Maintaining its earlier stance that the PDP and its presidential candidate are out to pull down President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC government at all cost in their desperation to clinch power, the president’s support group said it has been vindicated by the latest reasonable move by Atiku to drag the US government into a purely Nigerian affair. Speaking to journalists at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on arrival from the United States on Wednesday, the BCO’s Director of Communication and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, said the Police, Department of State Security (DSS) and other security agencies must not tarry too long before commencing a thorough investigation on allegation that Atiku paid the United States firm $30,000 to help him unseat Buhari. Ibrahim said, “It should be crystal clear to all Nigerians that we didn’t mince words when we said that in this business of wrestling power from President Buhari at all cost, mischief has become standard stuff. Now,  Atiku’s plan is to mortgage the country in a desperate bid to become president after suffering defeat at the presidential poll. “Inviting another country to meddle in what is purely a Nigerian affair amounts to treason and we at the BCO are calling on the Police and the DSS to investigate Atiku and ensure that he is brought  to book for treasonable felony. “Instead of pursuing his case over alleged stolen mandate constitutionally via the court, the PDP presidential candidates has chosen to invoke the corruption spirit by trying to invite the United States through the back door and hoodwink the international community into a futile voyage of reclaiming a mandate he never had”. Ibrahim noted that the great mass of Nigerians who thronged the polling units across the country to vote for President Buhari in the February 23 presidential poll was a clear message from the people that they are not ready to entrust the affairs of the country in the hands of corrupt politicians who are responsible for the hardship and abject poverty Nigeria was enmeshed in. He added: “But just like we have always said, Nigerians are aware that there is no better leader than President Buhari for now and that is why they voted massively for him. They know that after the bad precedence set by PDP in 16 years,  no politician has so far shown strong political will to change the economic and social fortunes of this country like President Buhari. We urge Nigerians to be wary of the antics of Atiku and his co-political travellers so as not to allow them wield the country back to the era of monumental corruption like what we saw in the 16 years of PDP misrule. “Selling out one’s country is treason and we members of the BCO have resolved that this allegation bordering on bribing foreign lobbyists to unseat President Buhari won’t go unpunished. So, we have resolved to draw the attention of security agencies to it. Decrying the killings in Kaduna, Zamfara,  Katsina and Kogi States, the BCO spokesman accused the opposition of fueling insecurity in the country just to undermine the goodwill President Buhari enjoys among the Nigerian populace, all in a bid to install another corrupt regime. “Don’t be surprised that this growing spare of killings is part of the plot to render President Buhari helpless just to give US government the impression that the centre can no longer hold in Nigeria. But such cheap plan cannot work.  We urge the US government not to allow desperate Nigerian politicians  to use them to invalidate elections which foreign observers certified to be free and fair”, Ibrahim added. 