There are indications that members of Lagos State House of Assembly will on resumption from Easter break by April 26,  deliberate and pass the contentious 2019 Budget of the state. LEADERSHIP findings show that the 2019 Appropriation Bill has been presented to the Committee on Budget and Finance, and Lagos State Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDA’s) over the past few weeks took turns to defend their respective budgets. Meanwhile, there has been horse trading and subtle campaigns by some members penciled to hold principal offices especially position of the Speaker. The incumbent Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa is reportedly making efforts to retain the coveted seat, while sources within the assembly revealed   that there is disquiet in the assembly premises among the lawmakers as everyone was being careful not to be seen as a dissident. It was gathered authoritatively that just as the 8th Assembly is winding up, stakeholders have been holding strategic meetings on what would be the face of the 9th Assembly as it relates to speakership and other principal officers. It will be recalled that there are concerns in many quarters that the Governor-elect, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu and his Deputy Governor-Elect, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat are from Ogun State, where the current speaker of the assembly also reportedly hails from. This school of thought is said to be rooting for an indigene of Lagos State to be elected as Speaker of the House after exit of former speaker Adeyemi Ikuforiji from Epe area of the state in 2015. A source who pleaded anonymity hinted that Obasa has the ears and support of the leaders of the party, adding that the certainty of his return was high. The leaders of the party and stakeholders are having constant meetings to sort out the issue and ensure that the 9th Lagos State House of Assembly takes off on a good note. While some mentioned the name of the incumbent Deputy Speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni as a contender for the office, he has not indicated any recent interest though he tried to vie for the office in 2015.