Kano State Governor Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said that he is very much prepared to pay the agreed thirty thousand Naira (N30, OOO) as minimum wage to the state Civil Servants with a vow not to retrench a single worker, no matter the situation. In the same vein, the National President of NLC Comrade Ayuba Waba has said that Governor Ganduje has become a pace setter as far as Civil Servants/Government cordial relationship is concerned and tasked other Governors to emulate him. Speaking during a maiden Nigeria Labour Congress Pre-May Day Symposium Organized by the Kano Chapter of the Union, Governor Ganduje assured that his government would not sack any Worker, but the workers should reciprocate the gesture done to them by putting in their best and dedicate themselves. Governor Ganduje noted, “because of my understanding of the importance of Labour Union and the survival of the Civil Servant as a formidable entity, we have introduced several emoluments to deserving Workers and now this symposium as a pre May Day program and is the first of its kind in Nigeria”. He said many more innovations are coming on board to ensure that Workers stand on their feet including the widening of the maiden Symposium by next year to be a global one that would bring in experts from all over the World to discuss about Labour/government relationship. Ganduje explained that with the Technological advancement and Digitalisation globally Workers should refrained from remaining without the basic computer knowledge which is the modern way of carrying out Public service with ease. on his part, Comrade Ayuba Waba the NLC President stated that Kano is setting a new pace in Labour/Workers relationship, because it could be recalled that even the May Day was started here in Kano by the Government of Abubakar Rimi and now Ganduje is introducing yet another innovations of Pre-May Day Symposium ” A big kudos to the people of state.” Waba revealed Waba said as it is today there is a symbiotic relationship between Workers/government with both site expecting results, “government expect quality public service while workers expect sound welfare to be able to carry out their jobs”. Comrade Ayuba Waba urged the state Government to revisit the concept of reward and Sanction as a penalty for Workers because that would be an instruments upon which the Civil Servants would give their utmost support and solidarity. Earlier, the State NLC Chairman, Comrade Kabiru Ado Minjibir, said with the introduction of the Pre-May day Symposium and many more gestures done to them by the government, it clearly shows that Ganduje has the best interest  workers at the back of their minds.