The Vice-Chancellor (VC), University of Jos, Professor Seddi Maimako has commended the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) for sponsoring the development of a Virtual Library Project in the University. Maimako described the project as transformational and would add value to the university’s library as a repository of academic resources and knowledge generation. The VC spoke when the Director General/Chief Executive Officer of NITDA visited the University to ascertain the level of work so far done on the project by the contractor. According to Maimako, the Virtual Library Project Intervention was awarded to Microban Standard Investment Limited to install Virtual Library soft ware with inverters for steady power supply to service the University Library Complex. He said the contractor had since mobilised to site and work has reached advanced stage of completion. He commended the contracting firm for a job well done so far. He described the Director General of  NITDA as a true friend of the university, who without any hesitation approved the request for intervention in the Naraguta Campus Library Complex which was gutted by fire in 2016. The NITDA Director General, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami explained that they were on an unscheduled visit to the university to monitor and ascertain the level of work done on the library project. Pantami said NITDA had been deploying intervention funds for several projects across the country and there was the need to always ascertain whether these jobs were being executed according to the prescribed standard. He commended the university management for the great transformation taking place in the institution. He described Professor Maimako as a man of proven integrity who has gone to great lengths to change the face of the university. Also speaking, the University Librarian, Dr Stephen Akintunde thanked NITDA for its intervention and said the University would from time to time approach the agency for more interventions. The NITDA delegation was conducted round the Naraguta Library Complex by the Vice-Chancellor to inspect the level of job done so far on the project. The Virtual Library Intention is funded by the 2016 TETFund Disaster Recovery Support.