The Young Progressives Party (YPP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the incoming leadership of the 9th National Assembly to as a matter of national emergency embark on an all-inclusive electoral reform using the 2015 Amended Electoral Act Bill as the foundation for the reform. The party made this call in a communiqué issued at the end of the 15th national executive committee meeting of the party, signed by its national publicity secretary Comrade Olawale Martins and made available to LEADERSHIP in Abuja. It alleged that the NEC of the party after a comprehensive analysis of the just concluded 2019 general elections agreed on the need for an urgent review of the country’s electoral laws identified to be responsible for the nationwide irregularities and violence witnessed during the elections. According to the statement, the NEC also commended all state executives of the party including members and volunteers for their invaluable contributions and endorsed the immediate review of the entire leadership architecture of the party both at the national, zones, states, local governments and wards in line with the party’s constitution. The communiqué reads in part: ‘’While acknowledging the party’s inability to meet set goals in the just concluded elections, the NEC however applauded the efforts of all candidates who contested on the platform of the party especially the Presidential candidate, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu and Hajia Umma Getso for their impressive showings throughout the campaign and the Senator-elect, Dr. Ifeanyi Ubah for his electoral victory. ‘’In furtherance of the party’s vision, a national summit to help build synergy in the party, a charity visit to IDP camps and an intervention visit to prisons were all approved to take place on dates that will be determined by various ad hoc committees.’’ The communiqué also unequivocally condemned the incessant extra-judicial killings by the country’s security agencies especially the Nigeria Police found to be responsible for the majority of the killings in the last six months. ‘’This unprecedented rate of extra-judicial killings calls for sober reflection and should not go unpunished as all those found culpable should be made to face the full wrath of the law,’’ the communiqué added.