The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has denied claims that the Supreme Court has ordered it to pay Bi-Courtney, whose promoter is Wale Babalakin, the sum of N132billion. In a reaction yesterday to a report published by a national newspaper (not LEADERSHIP), AMCON said that the story was incorrect. In a press statement signed by its head, Corporate Communications, Jude Nwauzor, yesterday, AMCON insisted that the newspaper erred in the entire report. Nwauzor said: ‘‘This obviously does not represent the judgment of the apex court. There was never an issue of any liability of AMCON before the Supreme Court. The decision of the Supreme Court never dealt with the merits of the appeal nor the substantive cause resulting in the ex-parte decision of the Federal High Court (FHC). ‘‘The appeal before the apex court was only in respect of the leave granted to AMCON by the Court of Appeal to appeal as an interested party and for which the apex court held that the application ought to have been filed in the Federal High Court first before the Court of Appeal. This was the sole issue submitted and determined by the Supreme Court whilst the substantive matter is still with the lower court. ‘‘More so, the appeal against the judgment of the federal government/FAAN which are parties to the substantive case giving rise to the enforcement order is still pending at the Court of Appeal. The said appeal is strictly between the federal government/FAAN and Bi-Courteny and has nothing to do with AMCON,’’Nwauzor said. AMCON further stated that the whole matter of N132billion is strictly a case between Bi-Courtney Limited and the federal government of Nigeria/FAAN, adding that ‘‘Bi-Courtney is struggling to tie the matter to their debt obligation in AMCON. The only import of the judgment is that AMCON seeks the leave of the Federal High Court first to appeal the enforcement order before approaching the Court of Appeal. The net effect of the above is that AMCON was never ordered to pay Bi-Courteny N132billion nor any other amount. AMCON has never been a party to any of the proceedings pending at the Court of Appeal ‘‘As far as AMCON is concerned, Bi-Courteny, owned by Wale Babalakin is still indebted to the corporation in excess of N119billion and the corporation would continue to explore every legal avenue to recover the said sum in the national interest and interest of the bond owners,’’ Nwauzor declared.