The Rivers State House of Assembly yesterday declared its support to the decision of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to suspend 12 local government council Chairmen in the state. Wike had in a letter of Notice of Suspension, addressed to the Speaker of the House, informed the lawmakers of the suspension of the affected Council Chairmen, citing security reasons. The suspended Council Chairmen include; Philemon Kingolo (Okrika), Tom Aliezi (Emohua), Daniel E.O. Daniel (Abua/Odual), Tony Phimoore (Degema), Lahteh Loolo (Khana) and Paul Kobani (Gokana). Others are Ben Eke (Ahoada East), Samuel Nwanosike (Ikwerre), Philip Okparaji (Ikwerre), Paul Lawrence  Paul (Andoni), Christian Nwaiwu (Omuma) and Erasmus Victor (Ogu/Bolo). The legislative backing to the governor’s action followed an approval by 22 lawmakers through a vote in favour of the action while none voted against the action. The Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Ikuinyi-Owaji Igbani, said the House also approved that the Vice Chairmen of the 12 local government areas should take over the running of the councils till further notice. Igbani said the House further approved that the suspended Council Chairmen should not have access to public funds within the period of their suspension. He said, “We approved that the respective Vice Chairmen do take over the running of the Councils until such a time that they will be recalled. Those for, 22, those against, nil, abstention, one”. “From the result of the voting, it shows that the House has approved and ratified the suspension of the undelisted local government chairmen. “The House also approved that the vice chairmen in the respective Councils should take over the running of those Councils mentioned”. “For record purposes, the suspended council chairmen should not have access to public funds until otherwise stated.” Speaking on the development, the chairman, House Committee on Local Government Affairs, Hon. Kelechi Nwogu, said the suspension of the Council Chairmen would serve as a deterrent to those who may feel to be above the law. Nwogu said: “The governor has done what he is supposed to do and we are solidly behind him. We are saying that any local government Chairman that tries to misbehave, he should deal with them.”