The Cross  River State in conjunction with  European Union (EU), managed by the transferWorld Bank, Thursday  signed a  N1.3bn  agreement for contract  awarded to Counter House Limited for upgrade and re-implementation of the State Intergrated Financial Management Information System (SIFMIS) of State and Local government Reform Project(SLOGOR).  In his remarks shortly after the agreement is signed,  the state  Commissioner for International Donor Corporation, Hon. Francis Etta stated that when the project fully become operational, the  problem of struggling to know the total sum of money that is the coffers of Government would  have become a thing of the past.  On the aim of the project, Etta stated that the project is  aimed at addressing very  financial operations of the state with ease stressing that the project  targeted at adopting a long term strategy where Information and Communication Technology would be integrated into it’s operations and it’s Ministries l, Departments and Agencies.  In his words, Etta said,”The project is what we call SIFMIS and if that comes operationalised, it means the financial operations of Cross River State would be digitalized, at a press of a button, the budget is out, the accounting systems are out and the audited account of the state will just be out unlike the way we have been going manually that takes a whole lot of time to produce an account,  that would become a thing of the past and that is the core essence .  “With the governor’s concept, being a digital governor, we want to digitalized the operations in Cross River State for him.”  Earlier, the Managing Director MD/Chief Executive Officer  CEO of Counterhouse Limited, Mr. Rotimi Olugbohungbe assured the state of delivery of  the project so long as the state government does its own part of the bargain.  While commending the Governor, Senator Ben Ayade for choosing to digitalize, he said, we always deliver ahead of schedule and that is what we are going to do for Cross River State and when the necessary thing is done, I think we can deliver in the next two weeks.” He assured.  In his remarks shortly  before signing the MOU onbehalf the state,the Cross River State  Coordinator for SLOGOR, Mr. Joseph Imbufe, stated  that the National Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU) of SLOGOR had engaged the services of expert consultants to provide technical and quality assurance support towards the success of the project.