Because of its commitment towards offering patients quality healthcare services, the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH), Makurdi has won €97,000 worth of equipment fromHeineken Foundation International. Hembadoon Orsar reports The Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH), Makurdi has won €97,000 worth of equipment from  Heineken Foundation International. The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital,  Professor Terrumun Swende who disclosed this, added that the hospital has also been rated higher in healthcare delivery among its peers across the country. Swende further disclosed that the hospital  won another grant from AIDS Preventive Initiative Nigeria, to equip and kit the hospital blood bank from A-Z with 45 different  items. This recent feats recorded by the hospital has taken it to the World Health Organisation’s  (WHO)bench mark as far as blood banking  is concerned and at no cost to the government of Benue State. “We have been able to attract €97,000 worth of equipment from Heineken Foundation International in recognition of our healthcare delivery efforts. We now have two ventilators (life support system) blood gas analysers, monitors among others at no cost,” he stated. He said under his leadership the hospital has been rendering social services to people of the state and the country at large, adding that a total knee replacement surgery, which ordinarily would have cost millions of naira was conducted at an affordable rate of N60,000 as part of our social service to the people. He explained that child patients are made to pay only half of their expected bills. “Healthcare all over the world is not supposed to be taken as a profit venture, so my appointment here is on merit and a call to national service. “We are not running this hospital with an intent of ripping people off and making money, we are offering social services, that is why our dialysis here is around N15,000 per session and this is not even enough to buy the consumables during the session,” he stated. Swende who said that funds remain the greatest challenge facing the hospital, however, said the management was prudently managing the available resources at its disposal to attain greater heights. He reiterated the commitment of the hospital towards breaking new grounds in providing healthcare services to Nigerians. On inadequate staffing, the CMD admitted  that such was unavoidable in certain areas, because such experts were not even available in the market for recruitment. He announced that the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria has granted five years full accreditations to BSUTH to train consultants radiologists. “Even in a depressed economy, we have been able to set up two new schools, school of Biochemical Engineering training up to diploma level and School of Health Information Management, ” he stated. Swende formally apologised to the general public for any shortcoming they may have encountered or witnessed at the hospital, in the course  of seeking  medical services, adding that the management of the institution was aiming for perfection. “We aim for perfection here, because the business that we do here requires that we should be perfect 100 per cent all the time and not even 99 per cent”. He said the management of the hospital was committed to keeping an environment that would engender healing as a patient  enters the hospital. About the sanitary condition of the hospital, the CMD said as physicians they are ministering  to the well being  of people as the state government  has awarded a N30 million contract to fix some of the damaged sewages and that has been successfully done. He disclosed that “the hospital  has contracted  the cleaning  of the hospital  to contractors  who recruit  people  for the cleaning  of the hospital. So, they are the ones handling  the cleaning  on a daily basis, while ours is to monitor  and ensure that the cleaning  is done as many times as possible and we are doing  this round the clock. “By looking  at our environment, one should  know  that we at the hospital are conscious of neatness, we are interested  in keeping  our environment clean  to engender healing, that is, as a patient walks into the hospital,  the healing  process  should  start, because  we have a contractor  obligation  of keeping  this place  neat and safe.” Sweden disclosed that, following  the break down  of equipment  at the Radiology  department,  the hospital  has invited private partners who are competent to invest, run and manage it.