The modish man understands that perception is key to making an entrance or building an empire in the visual world of today, so he pays maximum attention to his appearance. Stepping out in style effortlessly and consistently is a complex combination of style,knowledge and attention to details that belies the effort that goes into it. Below is a list of tips or guides that will make your journey of style easy and free of horrid faux pauz that could possibly destroy business deals or romantic interests. JACKETS A good jacket fit is also extremely flattering, giving a man’s body a tapered, proportional shape that appeals to basic aesthetics.You don’t have to look for anything exotic or luxurious. A simple herringbone tweed or even a soft corduroy is affordable, distinguished, and flexible enough to be worn at varying levels of dress. SHIRTS Plain colours are easy to match but may be boring to look at, you’ll want a white shirt or two for more formal occasions though. Checks and striping are both common and flattering patterns, though both should be kept small in scale. Large, bold stripes are more suited to stylish social wear, and anything more aggressive than a restrained grid pattern is veering too close to plaid for corporate tastes. Textured fabric can serve as an alternative form of patterning, such as a herringbone weave to give a shirt a two-tone sheen. Be aware that button-down collars are the least formal of styles, and often less flattering to a man’s face as well. Point or spread collars, neatly pressed, give your appearance a crispness that the admittedly-convenient button-down can’t quite match. NECKTIES Contrast with the shirt is a good thing, so long as it doesn’t clash. You can avoid this style faux-paus  by keeping the pattern of the shirt and the pattern of the tie distinct and differently-proportioned. For Instance, a tie with a few broad diagonal stripes goes well with a narrowly-checked shirt. Take the time to learn a knot well-suited to your build as well. If you have a stocky build and a broad face, a narrow tie in a small knot is going to make your head look oversized. Get a good thick tie and go ahead and put the full Windsor in it. TROUSERS There seems to be a lot of men out there who want their butts to look big and saggy. Don’t be one of them, ensure you buy slacks that fit comfortably in the waists, the hips. Remember to pay attention to  the “drop” between the waistband and the crotch. If you’ve got a lot of extra fabric hanging below the place where your legs meet, it all goes straight to the visual impression of your rear end.The thighs wind up looking a little chunkier too, and that’s not good. Make sure the fit is fairly snug, just loose enough to allow you to move comfortably and not much more. Larger men who genuinely need the extra flexibility in their trousers should stick to pleated fronts (and should be wearing their trousers high on the waist, preferably with suspenders in place of a belt). Plain fronts will flatter most men so long as they fit without stretching. Khaki and navy are probably the most popular color for office slacks, so try to find others for your wardrobe. Charcoal gray is an ideal color for more dressy looks, and a relaxed brown or green shade works well for more casual days. SHOES AND SOCKS Your shoes should be the same color as your belt (and in office settings that’s pretty much going to be either black or brown). Your socks, on the other hand, should match the color of your trousers, which means being sure to own a few pairs for every color of pants you wear. Regular polishing will help keep your shoes from looking scuffed or faded. You’ll end up saving yourself a lot of time and effort if you give them a quick dusting-off when you get home at night, or a wipe with a damp cloth if they’re dirty or mud-stained DETAILS An eye for details goes a long way in setting yourself apart from a uniform look. If you are wearing a jacket, throw a pocket square in the breast pocket. It shouldn’t be flashy, but its presence demonstrates time and effort spent on details. A wristwatch shows attention to punctuality, and is a lot classier than pulling your cell phone out of your pocket whenever you want to know the time. Cufflinks may be a bit formal for daily office culture — save the French cuffed shirts for meetings (though they’ll be a nice stylish touch when you do get there). And always pay attention to the details of grooming: clean shave, neat haircut, trimmed nails and no personal odor beyond your soap and maybe a mild deodorant or aftershave.