The National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) has sealed partnership deal with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to end marine oil pollution and safeguard the territorial waters . Director-general of NOSDRA, Mr Idris Musa, stated this in Abuja yesterday while signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with NIMASA on marine oil spill incident management in Nigeria. He said some sources of pollution were through the movement of empty maritime oil tankers and spills that involved stationery oil tankers at the high seas, operated by International Oil Companies (IOCs). Musa disclosed that one of the stationery oil tankers caused the Bonga oil spill in 2011. Recall that on December 20, 2011, about 40,000 barrels of oil spilled from Bonga field managed by Shell, which  affected over 20 riverine communities across Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Delta states. He said though both agencies had been working together since their inception, the MoU was necessitated when in 2016, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) carried out an IMO Members State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) which involved relevant stakeholders including NOSDRA and NIMASA. The DG pointed out that the MoU was to harmonise the responsibilities of both agencies especially during oil spill management in the marine environment since NOSDRA is the lead agency for oil spill management as contained in its establishment Act No 15, 2006. He said since its inception that NOSDRA has been committed to creating, nurturing and sustaining a zero tolerance for oil spill incidence in Nigerian environment through several technical cooperation agreement. Musa was optimistic that the MoU would enhance efficiency and competency in discharging its responsibilities, adding that it would facilitate its goal of addressing the present global and emerging trends in the oil spill management in the marine environment. On his part, the director- general of NIMASA, Dakuku Peterside, commended NOSDRA for the collaboration, saying that the containment of Bonga oil spill within 24 hours increased his respect for the agency.