Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development (MMSD), Abubakar Bawa Bwari has stated that the ministry in collaboration with the World Bank is taking steps to resuscitate and upgrade the Ladi Kwali (formally Abuja) Pottery Centre (LKPC) in Suleja, Niger State. According to the Minister who made the disclosure when he led a delegation of the World Bank on an assessment visit to the centre at the weekend, the move was informed by the determination of the present administration to revive the pottery industry in furtherance of its mineral sector focused economic diversification drive. The minister who was represented by the Director, Steel, Ime Ekrikpo said government’s mission is to rehabilitate the abandoned centre through the World Bank Assisted Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) Programme (an intervention programme coordinated by Linus Adie in the ministry). “I am indeed delighted for the opportunity to lead the delegation from the World Bank to Ladi Kwali Pottery Centre, Suleja because of the genuine desire of the present Administration to restore the golden pottery era leveraging on the abundant industrial mineral endowments of Niger State. “The federal government shall upgrade the centre to meet the demands of contemporary modern pottery production,” he said. The Minister who went down memory lane and recalled the glorious days of the centre however regretted that the centre which once drew the attention of the world to the Nigerian Pottery Industry through the exploits of famous potters like Michael Cardew (the one who found the centre in 1951), Ladi Dosei Kwali, Lami Toto, Akande Ushafa among others was allowed to decay from the neglect of successive governments over time. Speaking, the Head of the Task Team from the World Bank, Nura Arfaa who described the move as impressive expressed the hope that it will ultimately go beyond employment and revenue generation to national integration and unity, adding, “I am interested in seeing how far it goes in the next one or two years. Earlier, she was conducted round the entire complex which is now a shadow of itself, with roofless buildings and dilapidated structures by a Nigerian expert and award winner, Yakubu Dajo, the MD/CEO of Dajo Pottery who learnt under Ladi Kwali as an intern from Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria. On behalf of the state government, the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Daniel Kolo who was represented by a deputy director, Lawal Shehu who expressed gratitude to the federal government and the World Bank for taking steps towards restoring the glory of the centre pledged their unflinching support in the course of the project. The team also paid courtesy call on the Emir of Zazzau, Suleja who equally express delight over the project, assuring of maximum support.