DAVID ADUGE-ANI, in this report, looks at the new approach adopted by hawkers in the FCT despite efforts by authorities to end the menace of street hawking Hawking on the streets of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is not new. In fact it is as old as the FCT itself but what is new about the trend is the new approach hawkers, particularly under age children of have adopted to beat authorities in their game despite efforts to keep them off the street. It is one of the biggest challenges authorities in the FCT are currently battling with. Findings by Leadership Sunday have shown that they have become overwhelmed with the pace at which the trend is growing across the nation’s capital city. “I must say that one of the biggest challenges the AEPB faces, is the issue of removal of hawkers from the streets. It is like a vicious circle. The moment you remove them it is either that new ones are coming back or that the freed ones are returning back to the same spot. They seem not to understand the need to stay off unauthorised places, carrying out their trade. So it is a big challenge to the AEPB.” The Public Relation Officer, Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) Mallam Mukta Ibrahim, told Leadership Sunday while expressing frustration over the menace. It should be recalled that the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), enacted the AEPB Act of 1997 aimed at addressing selling in unauthorised places in the city. According to Section 35, subsection 1D&E, of the Act, “any person who sells or displays or offers or carries for sale any goods or article of trade in a road junction, or any other unauthorised place, or erects or constructs any house, kiosk or any other structure in an unauthorised place or in contravention of any plan or design whether general or particular as may be prescribed by the appropriate authority.” Also, in Section 20, sub section D (IV) of the act stipulates that any person who uses or causes to be used a residential premises or an unauthorised place for such other commercial activity, is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction or a fine of not less than N5000 or imprisonment for a term of three months or to both such fine and imprisonment.” Despite these laws, the AEPB has continued to battle street hawking within the Federal Capital City. For instance, in 2015, the current minister of FCT, Mohammad Bello reaffirmed the administration’s commitment to ensuring the city was without the menace of illegal street activities. Sadly, a dimension was added to the menace in recent time with the increasing cases of night hawking in various parts of the city. Surprisingly is the sight of under aged children involved in the menace. A visit to some parts of the city at night, especially Berger Junction, Utako, Jabi, Gimbiya Street in Area 11, Garki village, among others showed a large chunk of children hawking at night. These night child vendors are also found in many pedestrian bridges in places such as Gwarinpa, Kubwa expressway and at Dei-Dei axis in Bwari area council. A further investigation also revealed that these children at times continue in their trade into the late hours despite the risks of being kidnapped for ritual purposes, trafficking or other dangers they are exposed to. A resident of Garki village, Mohammed Garba, told our reporter that the children sometimes get knocked by fast moving vehicles at night. “It is risky business for these children who indulge in this act of hawking. Many times they have been knocked down by vehicles, while others, especially the females among them often fall victim to rape in the middle of the night.” One of the child hawkers, Fatima Umar, told our reporter that one of the reasons for hawking at night was to avoid the arrest and harassment of the officials of the AEPB, adding that night is more convenient for her to hawk because she goes to school in the day time. “I like selling my Kuli kuli in the night because by that time, nobody will arrest me or pursue me. Again, I also have to go to school in the morning.” Another child hawker, who refused to say his name, said he sells more at night than in the day time, adding that many night travellers that visit Jabi Garage usually patronise his orange business. ”Night market is better, because I make a lot of money from selling oranges at night from night travellers who visit Jabi Garage at night. It is unlike in the day time when there are many sellers, but at night you have few sellers and many buyers.” He added that the worse aspect is the officials of the AEPB who chase him and a times arrest and seize his goods. However, in an interview with our reporter, the director of AEPB, Alhaji Baba Shehu Lawan, maintained that the issue of under aged children hawking on the streets, especially at night is a social problem that should be jointly addressed by all well-meaning Nigerians, including the Social Development Secretariat (SDS), whose duty is to rehabilitate such miscreants. According to him, “We must agree that the hawking at night constitutes a major nuisance, especially when you see young children, some who should be in school, moving in and out of vehicular traffic. It is a real cause for worry. And sometimes they can get knocked down and sometimes, it is even the motorists that are at risk, because some of the hawkers turn out to be criminals pretending to be hawking goods.” Lawan, who spoke through the public relations officer of the board, Mallam Muktar Ibrahim, revealed that some security personnel have become a threat to their activities of clamping down on hawkers, because some of them are sympathetic to the plight of hawkers. Ibrahim stated that some security personnel have actually attacked the AEPB officials for attempting to arrest the hawkers. “Recently, there have been threats on our men, not just by the hawkers themselves, but even by security personnel, who feel some sympathy for the plight of the hawkers, or who are even sponsors of some of them. We were made to understand that some of these women and children that hawk around some particular areas, are dependants and wards of these security personnel. So, some of the security personnel have challenged our enforcement officers, which is wrong.” He also disclosed that the board has the challenge of inadequate manpower to carry out necessary arrest of the hawkers, especially at night, adding however that the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has approved the recruitment of about 300 enforcement personnel to beef the number of the total personnel of the board to over 700. He continued: “The issue of children hawking at night is very dangerous and it is not something that we would fold our hands over. In AEPB, we have a night roving team and they go round the districts to ensure that there is some form of sanity. But they cannot be at the same place at the same time. So, sometimes some of these hawkers escape arrest by our men, but we are doing everything to ensure that we curtail this night hawking, especially by children. We also intend to expand our night roving team because of the growing number of hawkers, to ensure that we have more of these night roving teams to curtail the activities of these people, who may be criminals.”