Against the backdrop of killings of innocent people across several parts of Nigeria, the Acting Secretary General of the national body of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Barrister Joseph Bade Daramola has said that God will intervene in the ugly situation and reign supreme in the affairs of Nigeria. This is just as he further averred that despite unabated kidnapping and insurgency which have the potential of threatening the unity of various faiths in Nigeria, the faithful have remained united. Barrister Daramola who led other national officers of CAN to Kaduna to commiserate with victims and Kaduna CAN Kaduna chapter noted that most of the targets of insecurity in the country were helpless people, pointing out that one day, it will be a thing of the past. “The Israelites suffered hardship but God eventually freed them from the Egyptians after several years in the hands of Pharaoh. “One day this insecurity will come to an end. It is on this note that  I want to commend the Chairman of Kaduna State CAN, Reverend Joseph Hayab for ensuring that succour is brought to victims in the internally Displaced Person’s (IDPs) camps in Kaduna. “Hope is not lost for the victims, God will wipe away the tears of those that are crying over this insecurity. God will resign Supreme in Nigeria, and Christians will ever remain united despite the Security threat to disunite them”. The CAN Scribe called on government to secure the environments of the affected communities, just as he advised the people to protect themselves against activities of the bandits. Earlier, the Chairman of Kaduna State chapter of CAN, Rev. Joseph Hayab recalled various attacks on Kajuru and Sanga communities, leading to lost of lives and property as well as places of worship. Rev. Hayab said relief materials worth millions of naira were contributed by various churches for Seven IDPs camps in the areas. He specifically said that 100 bags of fertiliser and 100 bundles of roofing sheets, amongst grains and clothings were donated to the IDPs to help them in settling back to their ancestral homes. He further harped on the need for victims at their return to their homes to protect themselves and their environments against all forms of attacks from evil people who take killing of innocent people as a way of life. 