The Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) has accused the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr. Okechokwu Enelamah of engaging in acts of impunity, high handedness, injustice and nepotism since assuming office in 2015. Speaking with journalists in Lagos, the General Secretary, ASCSN, Comrade Bashir Lawal said they have petitioned the National Assembly and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), saying the workers are watching and waiting for the outcome. He accused the minister of duplicating and wasting resources through the creation of the Nigerian Office of Trade Negotiation (NOTN) based on false memo, adding that the minister had also killed the Trade Department and rendered Commercial and Trade Officers redundant. ”We are also demanding that all outstanding payments since 2014 till date be prioritised on first come first serve basis for payments. “The training and welfare needs of workers must be concluded before the end of May 2019, services of consultants be withdrawn with immediate effect, timely conduct of promotion exercise should be observed. “All cases of conversion and upgrading pending in the ministry and with Head of Service (HOS) and FSCS should be worked on to ease off delays,’’ Lawal said. Also speaking, the Chairman of the Union, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment Unit, Mr. Okonkwo Onwuyah, said it was also worrisome that the minister had allowed impunity and maladministration to continue in Human Resources Department. He also alleged that there is desperate attempt to privatise Calabar and Kano Free Trade Zones under the management of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA). He called on government to reinstate Keftin Amuga as the Chief Registrar recognized by the Head of Service, Federal Civil Service Commission and the Civil Service rule. In his contribution, the Chairman, ASCSN, NEPZA Unit, Mr Samari Isah, said the association wrote President Buhari last year on the alleged impunity and corruption the minister was perpetrating in NEPZA, Isah said the authority was established with Decree No, 63 of 1992 now NEPZA Act Cap 20, Laws of Federation of Nigeria 2004 (LN). He said: “Power was granted NEPZA by section 4 of the Act, and previous administrations’ resolve to give the powers to the agency to handle the implementation of the nation’s drive towards industrialization.’’