The controversy over the leadership of the incoming 9th National Assembly has taken a new dimension, with interest groups disagreeing with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on secret voting for the selection process. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that while members of the National Assembly are aligning themselves to push for either the secret voting or open ballot in choosing leaders of the 9th Assembly, their constituents are insisting that every lawmaker’s vote must reflect the wishes of his or her constituents. PDP, it was reported, has orchestrated a two-pronged plan to wrestle the leadership of the National Assembly from the All Progressives Congress (APC) through the use of secret voting, setting the stage for an epic political battle on the day of inauguration of the 9th session in June. The opposition party, according to reports, is “already laying political landmines in the path of APC, which clinched majority of seats in the last elections, in order to have the legislative gravel by proxy.” But a pressure group, Advocates of Good Governance (AOGG), has disagreed with the party, insisting that the open ballot system of voting should be adopted in the election of leaders of the 9th Assembly. The AOGG urged National Assembly members to rise to the occasion of serving the interests of their constituents rather than their personal desires. In a statement signed by its executive director, Comrade Ishola Williams, the AOGG stated that a transparent election conducted in the open would be a step in the right direction, as any measure short of every representative or senator voting transparently will be a dent on good governance. Williams said, “We have watched, with keen interest, the on-going debate as to who becomes the leader of the 9th Assembly. There has been an unusual cacophony regarding the impending National Assembly leadership.  We noticed three tendencies. “There is the one being favoured by the party that made zoning paramount. There is another tendency that is being supported by the opposition and there is yet another and final one that is playing the “spoiler’’.   This one is merely intent on “ruining” the chances of others it perceived as the leading tendency. “We believe that the interest shown by the various tendencies is a positive development for our growing democracy but we hasten to add that such interests should be mindful of the implications on good governance of desperation for power and going overboard”. Recalling the 2015 experience that led to the emergence of the leadership of the 8th National Assembly, which “caused avoidable friction with the executive”, the AOGG said the 9th Assembly provides an opportunity to right the wrongs of 2015. “We advocate that every lawmaker should vote what is a reflection of the wishes of his constituents. We condemn the idea of a secret ballot on an issue as important as the election of the leadership of the National Assembly. We, however, subscribe to the global practice of making every voting in the parliament open and not secret. “Lawmakers have no say but the wishes of their constituents. Therefore, they should rise to the occasion of serving the interests of their constituents rather than their personal desires.”