Seven years after the arrest and prosecution of notorious Boko Haram ring leader, Kabiru Sokoto, Mrs Patience Akhigbe, wife of the taxi driver, who blew the whistle that led to the arrest of the deadly sect leader and other members of his gang, has come out for the first time, not only to tell of how her husband was brutally murdered and son, seriously injured; but also how her life and that of her family members have constantly been threatened by suspected members of the sect. Mrs Akhigbe, while telling LEADERSHIP Weekend the story of the death of her husband and the displacement of her family by suspected Boko Haram members, said the sect was responsible for setting her husband ablaze and causing bodily harm to her 28-year-old son. According to Akhigbe, she wants the general public to be aware of what happened in 2017, when her late husband, who was a cab driver, once had Kabiru Sokoto and his gang on board in his taxi. The cabbie’s widow disclosed that the incident took place on January 14, 2012 when her husband was on the way to the Borno State governor’s Lodge at Iro Dan Musa Street, Asokoro, Abuja adding that he later informed the police authority, which led to the arrest of Kabiru and some others persons. However, less than 24 hours later, on the same day, after being arrested, he was dramatically released from police custody thereby, creating great fear in the family. According to the woman, the family has not known peace since the said day as it has been one case of threat to life to another, a situation which has made them to be running from pillar to post. She said,  “On December 25, 2016, my late husband, my son and I, spent the Christmas together at Madalla, Abuja, which was also followed by the good news of my daughter putting to bed on December 27, 2016. I decided to travel the following day being December 28th not knowing that would be the last time I would see my husband and my son. “As usual, on December 31st, I spoke with my family on phone, but at midnight, their phone numbers were not going through anymore; both that of my late husband and my son. Around 8am the following day, which was January 1, 2017, I received thousands of phone calls from unknown people telling me about the death of my husband and that my son was nowhere to be found. Since then, the lives of my family members have never been the same.” She added that her husband had earlier received a letter from the high court asking him to stand as witness to the incident of January 14, 2012. Then, I warned my husband to reject the letter because the said Sokoto is a very strong man who was arrested and later released within 24 hours.”