Importers of used vehicles into Nigeria have decried paying additional money to some officials of the Nigeria Customs Service and the Nigeria Police on the highway after paying all duties, other federal government’s charges at the seaports and their goods cleared. LEADERSHIP findings showed that importers of already used vehicles that have been cleared from the seaports, who move their vehicles to other parts of the country without number plates, spend a total of between N5,000 and N10,000 per vehicle for these security officials who mount road blocks at different check points along the highway. It was further learnt that depending on where the vehicle is headed, especially beyond Abuja, the un-receipted money could rise to N15,000 per vehicle. This means that with five Customs checkpoints from Lagos to Abuja and over 35 police checkpoints, the driver of the tokunbo vehicle pay N200 at each police checkpoints while customs officers collect a minimum of  N2000. Importers of these used vehicles and clearing agents seems to be hopeless about the extortion. A clearing agent, Chukwudi Nnadi, told LEADERSHIP that giving bribes to the officers of these security agencies is a norm if one want to get to his destination on time. He said the security agencies can delay the importer from getting to his destinations at the appropriate time if he fails to ‘settle’ the officials even when complete Customs duty has been paid at the seaport. He however advised vehicle importers to acquire number plate before taking already cleared vehicles out of Lagos. He said: “Vehicle importers or lone importer should endeavour to acquire number plate before taking imported vehicles out of Lagos or else, they should expect Customs officials to stop and ask them for bribe. The truth of the matter is no one, except company vehicles, can pay correct import duty to government so to evade customs harassment, individuals should endeavor to get a number plate to their vehicle.” Also speaking, avehicle driver at the seaport, Kolade Ogunyemi, decried police harassment on tokunbo vehicles on the highway. The driver who said he is used to taking vehicles from Lagos to Abuja, North or South-East said he charges bribes he gives security agencies on the road with his service charge. He said: “Driving tokunbo vehicle to Abuja, we charge N45,000 but the main cost is a little above N25,000; we add N15,000 as bribe for officer on duty. If we refuse to part with N200 at police checkpoints, they delay us and we already have a targeted time to get to our destination and also because of the danger of night journey, we give them the bribe so that we can deliver the vehicle on time to the owner,” Ogunyemi said.