The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has issued the Clean Note Policy and Banknote Fitness Guidelines which it will be launching this week in furtherance of its mandate of ensuring the management of legal tender currency in Nigeria and ensure the recirculation of clean, fit and high quality banknotes. Last year, the CBN had released the exposure draft of the guideline which sets out to ensure that only clean notes are circulated in the country. The Clean Note Policy provides a uniform standard for the circulation of only clean and fit banknotes in Nigeria; while the Banknote Fitness Guidelines provide the industry with clear and acceptable criteria for determining the quality of banknote in circulation. These documents were developed after extensive collaboration and engagements with key industry Stakeholders under the auspices of the Nigerian Cash Management Scheme, a Bankers’ Committee initiative. The intention of the Bank is to ensure that unfit, dirty, mutilated and counterfeit banknotes are not in circulation in Nigeria. This is pursuant to Section 18,20 & 21 of the CBN Act 2007 which prohibits the counterfeiting, sale and abuse of the Naira. The Bank cannot achieve these objectives without the collaboration of Deposit Money Banks(DMBs), Merchant Banks, Microfinance Banks, Government agencies, Cash-in- Transit ( CIT), Cash Processing Companies (CPCs), Market Associations, Merchants/Retailers, Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Security agencies, Currency Management equipment manufacturers , bank customers and the general public. The Bank has developed a mechanism to ensure full compliance with the documents by stakeholders. Compliant channels such as phone and emails would be provided to enable the general public provide information on infractions of the two documents. With the Clean Notes Policy, commercial banks will now be fined for dispensing unfit naira notes either over the counter or through Automated Teller Machines, while the mutilation of notes will attract a fine of N50,000 or six months imprisonment as the Central Bank of Nigeria has released a Clean Note Policy. It warned deposit money banks (DMBs), other financial institutions and the general public to desist from acts which are injurious to the naira. Such acts it listed as writing or graffiti, mutilating, stapling the naira, tearing or making hole of any kind, spraying, soiling or marching. Offenders the CBN said will be liable to a fine of N50,000 or six months imprisonment or both under the provision of Section 21 of the CBN Act, 2007.