Following its successful acquisition of ADIC Insurance Ltd, NSIA Insurance Company Limited has continued ADIC’s tradition of providing services that consistently meet customer and regulatory requirements, thereby, giving peace of mind to its policyholders. The Groupe NSIA holding companies currently operate throughout Africa, including, Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Nigeria, Togo and Senegal. NSIA Insurance, currently marshaled by Mrs. Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu as the managing director/CEO, is driven by its commitment to innovation, professionalism, reliability and rates that are highly competitive and matched only by the excellence of the products and services provided. Providing the best risk-management for companies and individuals comes from expert knowledge of the industries in which one operates and when combined with dedication to looking out for clients’ interests, always, you can only hope for the best. This is what NSIA Insurance can boastfully proud of, a trait that has won the insurer many admirers. In the last two years, the company has paid over N3 billion claims as it is trying to ensure that genuine claimants are compensated so that they are able to get value for money. With a healthy balance sheet, the insurer posted a Premium Income of N6.4 billion in its most recent financial year(2018) as against N5.5 billion it recorded in its 2017 financial year, while its Capitalisation appreciates by N900 million from N5.5 billion in 2017 to N6.4 billion in 2018. Its Asset base grew to N10.9 billion from N10.7 billion within period under review, even as its Profit Before Tax was N641 million in 2017 and rose to N892 million in 2018 financial year. The company’s Profit After Tax equally soared to N670 million in 2018 as against N402 million posted in 2017. NSIA Insurance also has a Customer Base of about 8,000 corporate  and individual clients, while it operates from 10 locations across the country. Being, a composite insurer, it has attractive products in both life and non-life insurance. For instance, its Fire & Special Perils Insurance Policy provides indemnity for losses or damage resulting from fire or Special perils such as Storm, Flood, Riots and Strikes, Malicious damage, Impact damage and falling aircrafts or aerial devices. Its Business Interruption insurance provides indemnity for financial loss suffered by a business as a result of interruption in business activities following the occurrence of fire or any special perils. Items covered include, Gross Profits, Increased Cost of Working, Auditors Fees and Wages of Employees. Its Burglary/ Theft Insurance Policy provides indemnity to the Insured for loss of or damage to insured property following from theft accompanied with forcible or violent entry or exit. It provides compensation for misfortune suffered as a result of theft of any of the insured items. One of its innovative product is Money Insurance. The object of money insurance is to indemnify the Insured against all risks of loss of money while in transit, whilst in the insured safe or premises during and after business. This policy can also be extended to cover loss of cash while in insured premises or personal custody of trusted employees of the Insured. In the Life Insurance Product  class,  there are numerous products that are attracting the interest of the insuring public. Hence, NSIA Life Insurance Product provides a lump sum of money in the event of death of the policyholder within a specified period of time, while NSIA Keyman Assurance Cover  is a variation of the basic term assurance contract and it is specifically designed for business men or women, traders, importers/exporters, key officers of organizations, partners in a firm and small business owners. Credit Life Cover (NSIA Super Protector) is a credit life insurance product designed to protect financial institutions against the risk of death of short term borrowers. It also serves the purpose of protecting policyholder’s dependents from the financial consequences of an outstanding loan standing against the breadwinner. Should death occur, the financial institution (e.g. bank) recoups its loan from the insurance proceeds and avoid the awkward situation of asset repossession or sale. Similarly, policyholder’s dependents also keep the asset in the family thereby reducing the agony of breadwinner’s untimely death. With a mission to Create, Protect and Preserve Wealth, its vision is to  distinguish NSIA as the trusted and preferred financial services partner in every home and enterprise in Nigeria.