Engr Ali .A. Rabiu has emerged as the new President of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN). According to a statement from COREN’s Head, Public Relations, Hakuna Ojonugwa, Engr Rabiu was elected as the President at the extraordinary session of the council held in Abuja. He takes over from Engr Kashim A. Ali who served two terms as President of COREN from April 2013 – April 2019. Engr Rabiu  who was born on the 24th of April, 1963 in Lafia Nassarawa State attended Bayero University in Kano State from where he obtained a Bachelors Degree and an MBA in Civil Engineering. He is a COREN  registered engineer and a Fellow of Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE); a Fellow of Nigerian Institution of Civil Engineers (FNICE); a Member, Nigerian Institute of Management (MNIM); a Member, Nigerian Water & Sanitation Association (MNIWASA), a Member, Association of Consulting Engineers, Nigeria (ACEN) among others. Engr Rabiu has a robust professional career in engineering spanning over 30 years where he has served in various administrative and managerial capacities in the public and private sector such as being the Executive Partner, AR – AR Partnership Consulting Engineering firm;  Senior Engineer, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital Project; Project Coordinator, Bayelsa State Infrastructural Development Programme; Project Manager, Hotoro South Erosion Control Project, Kano State and among others. He is a former Vice President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, NSE, with vast experience in management and policy making. He had held some key positions such as: member, Presidential Monitoring Team on DFRRI Rural Water and Sanitation Programme, Sokoto and Kebbi States, consultant/member, house of representatives adhoc committee on the investigation of flooding of the Goronyo dam, Sokoto state, member, governing council, federal college of education (Technical), Bichi, Kano state; chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers, Kano branch; chairman, technical committee to assess the damages/loses caused by fire outbreak at Muhammadu Abubakar Rimi market, Kano state, among others.