The director general, National Space Research and Development Agency (NASDRA) Prof. Seidu Onailo Mohammed in this interview with TUNDE OGUNTOLA said that the agency has so far launched five satellites into outer space, adding that the agency is set to play a bigger role in transforming the nation’s agricultural sector to sustain the quantum of food it deserves. Since the establishment of your agency in 1999, what have you done differently to advance the cause of this agency? National Space Research and Development Agency (NASDRA) is the national space agency of Nigeria. It is a part of the federal ministry of science and technology and it is overseen by the National Council on Space Science Technology. This agency was established on 5th May, 1999 and in exactly a month’s time, we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the oldest space agency in Africa. We have helped to put Nigeria on the global map of where space activities happen across the world, that’s number one. Also, as the agency of government meant for the promotion of space science and technology, we have developed several aspects. We have established a Centre For Remote Sensing for Space Technology applications all over the country. These have helped the monitoring of flood, in the data acquisition and various activities related to agriculture, water resources development, road corridor’s selection, urban mapping, and urban upgrading. All these we have been participating around this country. Not only that, we have also established a center for learning, in space science and technology in collaboration with the United Nations. That is the UN Center for Space Technology Education for English speaking Africans; it’s in collaboration with Obafemi Awolowo University in Ile-Ife. Here from this centre, we have trained well over 300 at the Post Graduate level up to Diploma and Master’s degree level for the all English speaking countries of Africa. And apart from this we have also contributed to the study of astronomy and breaking space heights which is done through one of our centres in collaboration with the University of Nigeria Nsuka. We have essentially been monitoring part of Africa through our centre for geodynamics. All these we have achieved with assistance from experts around the world including NASA. We’ve been monitoring the movement around the African continent and helping to develop models which we can predict tsunami, earthquakes and other related phenomenon. In recent time we have also been involved in Space Atmospheric Research, all activities happening in the outer space. We also have had the opportunity of doing other things in the form of promoting this technology in various aspects of our lives. Helping to monitor natural resources, helping to advice or precision agriculture and lots more. Not only that, we have successfully since this centre was established 20years ago launched a number of satellites as the government agency responsible for satellite activities. We have launched Nigeria SAT1 we’ve launched Nigeria SAT2 we’ve launched Nigeria SATX we’ve launched NanoSatellite which we call the EDU-SAT1 and we have also launched NICOM SAT1 which was de-orbited, we have also launched NICOM SAT2.  We have launched more satellite than any other space agency in Africa. And have been a shining light all over the world.  We are internationally acknowledged by the International Academy of Astronautics and International Astronomic Federation, referring to Nigerian space agency as a good example for the developing world. We have pioneered with our collaborators in the United Kingdom UK, we have pioneered microsatellites, the first of its kind in the world. In addition to that, we have also trained manpower extensively in this place, today on this platform we have over 185 PhDs and more than 600 Masters Degree on our platform doing research, design and all aspects of space science and technology for our country. And what that means is that we have become a major pool for experts in space activities. Recently we started what we call the Space Institute, the first of its kind in Africa affiliated to the African University of Science and Technology to train on the level of PhDs. The first set of PhDs are starting next month and then 40 MSc’s.  This is ordinarily what we are doing outside the country, spending a lot of money in dollars so this intervention is accredited by National University Commission. Nigeria will go a long way in saving millions of foreign exchange and also bringing others from other African countries to train here. This we believe in our opinion is the best way for Nigerians to go in developing high technology.  In line with president Muhammadu Buhari’s administration which tends to focus or diversify on  how to improve the country’s foreign exchange capacity as well as make Nigeria more viable in agriculture, can you please go in details what your agency is doing towards improving agricultural practices in the country? As an agency of government responsible for earth observation satellite which has a lot of use in the area of agriculture, a number of farmers come here and we advice them on what to do which includes the use of satellite images for land capability classification, after doing this we go there to take samples and also to analyse their soil and advise them what can grow well in and for those with large farms we use satellite images, some we use on land area vehicles which is drones, we fly them through their farms and be able to advise them appropriately on what they should do. And not only that, we are able to use our band on our satellite to access the health of crops for farmers all over the country, specifically those that come to us. These are the things we do. We expect that things of this nature will increase more,  because more people are going into commercial agriculture and a lot of these things will begin to happen and technology will begin to play a better and bigger role in agriculture as the only way to sustain the quantum of food we deserve to produce that will match with the geometric production and increase in population. So if we put all these things together, space science and technology have a lot of prospects in improving agriculture in Nigeria.  There are allegations of job racketeering on your agency, sir can u briefly tell us what went wrong on this? Yes, we have heard about that on social media. I’ve been chief executive for the last ten and a half years. There has never been any of such allegations, its unfortunate last month we heard about that. There has been speculation that I may be eyeing the office, according to the popular maxim: ‘’when the owl cries during the night, the child dies the next morning”  it is obviously a politics of calumny, politics of backwardness, politics of underdevelopment and people whose interest is not to look forward to the future. We should go beyond this; we have challenged them to please produce evidence so that we can see the truth in what they say. Let me also tell you it’s also on our website. When some smart ones tried to undo us we detected fake letters during our employment last year, immediately those ones were ceased and they were sent away. The employment letter were traced to some people in admin, they were dismissed. And this is a routine kind of thing that we do. So any other one other than making it something to indict the DG without any evidence leaves much to be desired.  Just like your last word you just mentioned pettiness; there are also petty allegations on social media on your professorship. Can you please tell us how you made it to become a professor? Yes I have a Ph.D. and I have over 40 research publications, Google them, and not only those researchers all around the world, when you tender your publications. The University Senate will look into it if it is approved you become a professor. By the quality of publications, look at my contributions all around the world and Kaduna state university in 2013 I applied because they must continue to bring one’s experience from the research agencies, and publications to train the regular students particularly in space science and technology. I told you we have just established a space institute accredited by national university commission training people at the highest level in Ph.D. So apart from that, those of us in the space agency and the research agency will bring the experience and look from patented knowledge through collaboration with other international partners into our universities, that is what is done all over the world. The last satellite we launched NANO-SAT which is EDU-SAT1, we did it here in collaboration with the Federal University of Technology Akure. We are transferring the patented knowledge to the university students as part of training the trainer program. So most of the people saying these are semi-educated politicians in Kogi state who do not understand the global practices. So these are only news for them and their wives in the homes not for public consumption.     We heard from some sources that you might be interested in running for the position of the governorship in Kogi state, how true? As far as I’m concerned, I’m a son of Kogi state. I belong there and I would always return there. In the first place, I, like any other citizen qualify to run. And if a public outcry for the development in Kogi state, Primary schools have been closed in the last two years. If people call on me, I will respond. But it’s also up to me to think about it as I’m rounding up here now. After that, I would be able to make up my mind on what to do. I will consult my friends, consult my family and i would also consult my associates as it’s not a decision for one person. Because we are talking about taking responsibility for over four million people, it’s neither a joke nor a tea party so that is what I can say about this for now.  Do you have any message for the people of Kogi state? For Kogi state, we believe Kogi is in a prime location. Kogi must wake up from its slumber, through hard work and collective work and being able to justify their existence.