Mesut Ozil has categorically ruled out a January loan move and is fully intent on winning back his starting position in the Arsenal team. The German playmaker appears to have fallen out of favour at the Emirates Stadium in recent months, and has been in and out of the team under manager Unai Emery. Speculation mounted after Ozil was omitted from the match-day squad for the recent crunch match with Liverpool, though Arsenal later came out to state a knee injury was the reason for absence. With a host of clubs believed to be eager to loan the World Cup winner in January, Ozil will turn down all such opportunities, report ESPN. Ozil is determined to become a permanent starter for the Gunners once more and win his place back, according to the report. Between various injuries, Emery has also left Ozil out of his starting line-ups for ‘tactical reasons,’ though did recently recall the player for the 3-1 victory over Burnley – during which he picked up the man of the match award. Gunners legend Emmanuel Petit recently slammed Ozil following his omission from the squad, claiming ‘he has been a ghost for two years’. Ozil’s struggles continued on Boxing Day when he was taken off at half-time during the disappointing 1-1 draw at Brighton. The former Real Madrid man signed a new £350,000-a-week contract at the Emirates Stadium back in January but is doing little to justify such extravagant wages at present. ‘Mesut Ozil was taken off at half-time. I’m a big fan of his, but he has been a ghost for two years,’ Petit said. ‘Where is the Ozil who was one of the best players around, making so many assists and goals? I think he has lost his desire on the pitch, it’s not there any more.’Ozil’s struggles continued on Boxing Day when he was taken off at half-time during the disappointing 1-1 draw at Brighton. The former Real Madrid man signed a new £350,000-a-week contract at the Emirates Stadium back in January but is doing little to justify such extravagant wages at present. ‘Mesut Ozil was taken off at half-time. I’m a big fan of his, but he has been a ghost for two years,’ Petit said. ‘Where is the Ozil who was one of the best players around, making so many assists and goals? I think he has lost his desire on the pitch, it’s not there any more.’