Governor Nasir El-Rufai has said that his government has expanded access to education in Kaduna state since he assumed office just as he promised to do improve the sector in his second term. The governor, who said this at Soba town, headquarters of Soba local government at a stakeholders’ meeting on Wednesday, also promised to site a campus of Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic in Soba. In his address at the meeting, El-Rufai also promised that a tertiary institution will be sited in every local government in Kaduna state in order to boost education. The governor however advised the people of Soba area council to embrace western education in order to fill their quota in the civil service. He said that right now, there is no permanent secretary from the local government. According to the governor, the world has changed as there is practically nothing anyone can engage in without education “that is why we have accorded education priority.” “We have repaired most primary schools in Kaduna state, employed qualified teachers. Education is free from primary to Junior Secondary School. And it is free for girls up to senior secondary school,” he added. El-Rufai, also expressed optimism that the coming election will be peaceful because the National Security Adviser, retired General Babagana Monguno has instituted an elaborate security arrangement to facillitate a hitch-free  exercise. The governor further said that he met with General Monguno on Tuesday on the issue, where they discussed at some length. According to him, the proposed security arrangement will include the police and para-military forces like Custom officials, Immigration personnel and the military. El- Rufai further warned youths to desist from carrying arms on Election Day because the security men have been ordered to arrest anyone who bears arms on that day. The governor revealed that the security agents will shoot anyone who snatches ballot boxes or disupts the polls on election days “I want you to warn your children to be orderly on Election Day. The security agents have specific orders to arrest any trouble maker or anyone who carries weapons on Election Day. And anyone who attempts to snatch ballot box will be shot. So, as leaders, we are duty-bound to tell you of this arrangement,” El-Rufai further said. The governor also said   that election has been made much simpler this time around so as to ensure a fool proof process. “Now, if you are accredited, you will be allowed to vote immediately, unlike before when voting was done after everyone is accredited before everyone was allowed to vote. This time around, once you are accredited, you will be allowed to vote and go”, he explained. The governor, however, advised voters to return to their polling units at a later time so as to make sure their votes count