Governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday reaffirmed their unflinching support for the APC Presidential Campaign Council (APCC). The governors under the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) who were reacting to reports in the media suggesting that they shunned the meeting of the council held on Thursday described the said reports as false and mischievous design targeted at some cheap propaganda. In a statement signed by the director general of PGF, Salihu Lukman, the governors explained that they couldn’t attend the meeting of the campaign council because as coordinators of the campaigns in their respective states and zones, they are already burdened with the responsibility of organising structures of the APC campaigns ahead of scheduled activities. Clarifying on their absence at the APCC meeting, the PGF said, “It is false, fabrications and clearly a mischievous design for some cheap propaganda aimed at hoodwinking Nigerians into imagining any form of discord between APC Governors, its Presidential Campaign Council or the party leadership. “Just coming after the Tuesday, January 8, 2019 inauguration of the Council where virtually all APC Governors attended, any rational mind would have appreciated the compelling circumstances, which made it difficult for the Governors to be present at the Thursday’s meeting of the Council.” “Again, given that the meeting of Thursday January 10 was convened in response to the urgent need to consider detailed campaign programs, APC Governors regrettably missed the meeting with the commitment to the leadership of the Council that they endorse all decisions of the Council and accept all responsibilities that would be assigned to them,” the statement read. “On behalf of APC Governors, I therefore wish to emphatically state that all APC Governors are firmly united in their resolve to work tenaciously with the APC Presidential Campaign Council for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari”. The APC governors urged Nigerians and APC members to regard media reports suggesting any discord between them and the Campaign Council “as part of the habitual lies being fabricated in order to damage APC, its candidates at all levels and especially President Muhammadu Buhari in order to give life to the opposition.” Tinubu Lobbies S’West Royal Fathers For PMB Meanwhile, national leader of the APC and co- chairman of the party’s Presidential Council, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has begun intensive lobbying to get the backing of traditional rulers in the South West to support President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming presidential election. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the royal fathers were earlier at the presidential villa were the reportedly held a closed door meeting with President Buhari before a delegation led by the Oni of Ife, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, paid the former Lagos State governor a courtesy visit  at the Lagos lodge, Asokoro on Friday afternoon. But briefing journalists after their meeting, Tinubu said the royal fathers harped on the need for peaceful election next February. Tinubu who expressed optimism that the governing party would be returned with a comfortable lead at the presidential poll and other elections said the APC has no need to instigate violence in an election it is sure to win. He said, “I am very happy and proud of the very promising situation. When you have the endorsement of your royal fathers, it means you have the people with you and the voice of the people is the voice of God. I am elated. “The Royal fathers spoke of the need for peaceful elections. When you believe that you can get a proper result, you work hard because you want peace. When you believe that you can win, you don’t want violence”. On the violence that trailed the APC governorship rally last weekend in Lagos, Tinubu assured that his brothers and followers in the zone cannot be made sacrificial lambs. “We all love our children, our brothers and our followers and none of us would want our followers to become sacrificial lambs. We won’t encourage violent disruption of any election because we are confident of winning. Those who are crying wolf before the elections have already accepted defeat before the elections, as far as I am concerned”, he said. On reports that he collapsed shortly after he was assigned the task of leading the APC presidential campaign, the APC leader dismissed it as fake news, just as he rubbished reports that APC governors boycotted the meeting of the APC Presidential Campaign Council. According to him, the governors need not attend every meeting of the council. “The point is that the governors had to stay back home because we all don’t have to converge in one place to decide certain modalities when we can easily go back to them on what we discussed and what we expect from their states. That is what we call structuring in an election”, he stated. Also speaking on the meeting, the Oni of Ife said they met with Tinubu to sue for peace ahead of the forthcoming elections. “My message to Nigerians in this time of election is peace, peace and peaceful coexistence all the way. The power of every Nigerian and every electorate lies in the thumb. As traditional rulers, we are father to all and in playing that role we pray that there should be peace in this country. “That is what we are preaching and it is very important to all of us to know than Nigeria is greater than any of us. So, we should continue to preach peace and identify with good things that will be beneficial to the nation. That is why we are here”.