The presidency yesterday refuted the claim by the opposition that President Muhammadu Buhari and a national commissioner in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Hajiya Amina Zakari, are blood relations. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had on Thursday rejected the appointment of Mrs Zakari as chairperson of INEC’s Election Collation Centre Committee, saying it is a ploy to rig the 2019 polls in favour of the president and his party. But in a statement by the senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the presidency described PDP’s claim as mendacious and baseless accusations. Shehu noted that in its desperation, the opposition party forgot that it was the PDP government that appointed Hajiya Zakari in the first place. He said apart from imputing a blood relationship between Zakari and President Buhari, members of the opposition have been lying all the while and have been caught doing so on many issues. The presidential spokesman stated: “President Buhari and Commissioner Amina Zakari don’t share a family relationship. An inter-marriage occurred in their extended families. So, the imputation of blood relationship between the President and the electoral commissioner is a simple lie. “What is even more curious about all the fuss coming from the PDP is that they, as a ruling party, picked Mrs Zakari, judging her by her own merit and made her an electoral commissioner. “She served so well with distinction as can be verified from the records that President Buhari approved the recommendation that she be reappointed, as he did other PDP nominees for second-term of four years”. Shehu pointed out that PDP has no moral right to keep harassing Mrs Zakari unless they have a hidden agenda. “By this statement, the PDP is guilty of scoring an own goal and two of harassing an innocent citizen on the basis of a lie, pure and simple,” he said. Remove Zakari From INEC, PDP Tells NASS But the PDP maintained its stance by charging the National Assembly to commence an immediate process for the removal of Mrs Amina Zakari from INEC. Specifically, the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) asked the National Assembly to mandate the President Buhari to remove Zakari, who it alleged is the president’s niece. Addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja, the director of media and publicity of the PPCO, Kola Ologbondiyan, said PDP’s position is predicated on the fact that Amina Zakari who is allegedly President Buhari’s niece will be used to “compromise the independence of the commission, manipulate the electoral process and rig the Presidential election for him.” The PDP made the call in light of Zakari’s recent emergence as chairman of the Committee on Collation Centre. The party’s call on the National Assembly to remove Mrs Zakari would require two-thirds majority of the Senate in compliance with section 157 (3). Ologbondiyan alleged that the Buhari presidency had been using Zakari to mount pressure on INEC even to the extent of brazenly foisting her as the collation officer for the Presidential election to enable President Buhari announce himself as winner. He added that INEC can no longer lay claim to being a credible, completely impartial, transparent, totally independent and immune from external control by interested entities, as long as Amina Zakari remains a member of the commission. PDP stated: “By foisting Mrs. Amina Zakari to lead the final process of the election, President Buhari is seeking a way to annex INEC, practically, take over the collation of results, and announce himself the winner. “This is a clear invitation to anarchy and a huge political crisis capable of derailing our democracy because Nigerians, across the board, are already in vehement rejection of this self-succession plot and are now, more than ever before, ready to use every necessary means available and accessible to them in a democracy to protect our democratic process. “Furthermore, as long as Amina Zakari remains in INEC, the commission cannot be trusted.” On the alleged meeting between Zakari and Buhari Campaign Organsiation, Ologbondiyan said “we have been informed of how Mrs Zakari led other top INEC officials to a secret meeting with some top officials of the Buhari Campaign Organization (BCO) in Abuja on ways to introduce the controversial Incidence Form under a new name and use such to manipulate the collation of results. “We therefore urge Nigerians and lovers of democracy all over the world to unite in condemning this scheme by the Buhari Presidency to use Amina Zakari to enmesh our election into unnecessary controversy and trigger a political crisis in our country, just because they have realized that President Buhari cannot win the Presidential election. “President Buhari and Amina Zakari should know that Nigerians have made up their minds in rallying behind our Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as their next president and no amount of machination, shenanigans and scheming will stop this resolve. “We want the world to note how our Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, has been traversing the length and breadth of our nation campaigning and winning the support of millions of compatriots with his message of hope and practical solutions to myriads of our national problems for which Nigerians have attained a consensus to elect him as their next President. “Instead of campaigning, President Buhari, having realized that Nigerians are no longer interested in his empty promises and display of incompetence, has rather resorted to seeking ways to manipulate the electoral processes and foist himself back to power against the wishes of Nigerians”. The party vowed that the Buhari presidency will never have its way in rigging the 2019 elections through a self-succession strategy. It further stated: “We insist that, in this election, votes must count and only the will of Nigerians, as expressed at the ballot will prevail. The PPCO therefore urges Nigerians to brace up to the challenge and stand for democracy by getting ready to vote, protect their votes to the very end and ensure that their choice of Atiku Abubakar as their next President is not subverted by anybody, no matter how highly placed. “Nigeria belongs to all of us. No one individual is bigger that our collective entity as a nation. Our citizens will never allow a group of very few desperate and compromised individuals in the Buhari Presidency and INEC to hold our nation to ransom”.