The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, yesterday disclosed that the Nigerian Air Force as part of its drive to build the capacity of its personnel for effective service trained 432 personnel abroad and 6,530 within the country between January and December 2018. He made the disclosure in Abuja during a meeting with media executives where he unveiled the service’s achievement in year 2018. The CAS noted that the NAF has also built several facilities to further enhance training and operations effectiveness of the service. He said the training facilities at the Military Training Centre in Kaduna have been expanded to allow for the simultaneous training of recruits, noting that presently, the NAF can confidently train 2,500 simultaneously as against the previous 500. Similarly, he said the enhancement of training facilities at the 401 Flying Training School (401 FTS), Kaduna has improved the training capacity of the school such that, for the first time, in about three decades, the school was able to complete ab-initio flying training for cadets before their commissioning as officers. Another major achievement, in terms of capacity building, he said was the conduct of a live weapons firing meeting  featuring all NAF combat aircraft, which took place at the Kwanev Range in Benue State during the 2017 NAF Day Celebrations for the first time in about 30 years. Abubakar, who was appointed as the 20th Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) on 13 July, 2015 assumed office with the vision to reposition the NAF into a highly professional and disciplined force through capacity building initiatives for effective, efficient and timely employment of air power in response to Nigeria’s national security imperatives. He said in the process of repositioning the Service, the current NAF administration has, within the last three and half years, recorded remarkable achievements in the fight against terrorism and other forms of criminality in the country. This feat he said had been greatly facilitated by the acquisition of new platforms and reactivation of existing ones. He added that the NAF has witnessed enhanced professionalism through the expansion of its organisational structure and augmentation of its manpower strength. “Tremendous progress has also been made in the areas of human capacity development, enhancement of personnel welfare as well as Research and Development (R&D),” he said. Outlining his achievements, he said the Nigerian nation has witnessed remarkable improvement in the security situation especially as regards the war against Boko Haram (BH), since 2015. He said that the combined efforts of the Armed Forces, supported by other security agencies, have resulted in the liberation of territories from the Sect earlier occupied by terrorists. “In 2018, the NAF conducted several air raids in support of the Operation Lafiya Dole. These include Operation Ruwan Wuta III – IV, Operation Thunder Strike I and II as well as Operation Green Sweep. As 2018 drew to a close, we saw the emergence of new tactics as well as the introduction of highly experienced and skilled fighters and technology, as ISIS elements, dislodged from Syria, relocated to the North East of our country. Our gallant fighter and helicopter gunship pilots are adapting creditably to these emerging nuances and making good progress, despite recent setbacks” In the fight against armed banditry in the Northwest, he said the NAF deployed personnel along with air assets as part of the DHQ Operation Sharan Daji and also conducted dedicated air strikes against identified armed bandit locations under the auspices of Operation Diran Mikiya. Asides the deployment of Special Forces fighting along other forces, he said the NAF in conjunction with other security agencies has continued to provide close air support; air interdiction; in-Theatres liaison flights, medical evacuations and casualty evacuation as well as logistics re-supply of ammunitions, water, food and medicine. Speaking further, the CAS said the NAF fleets of aircraft have recorded unprecedented growth in the last three years. “A total of 16 brand new aircraft were purchased, while 13 previously grounded aircraft were reactivated with reactivation of another two presently in progress. The NAF is also conducting Periodic Depot Maintenance (PDM) for three Alpha Jet aircraft and Life Extension Programme for three L-39ZA aircraft in Kainji and Kano, respectively,” He added that during the 2018 calendar year, the NAF inducted  Super Mushshak aircraft acquired from Pakistan, new Mi-35M Helicopters gunships delivered to Nigeria from the Russian Federation, Bell 412 helicopters, Tsaigunmi UAV and one Alpha Jet ferried in from the USA. He noted that in addition to the platforms, the federal government also released funds for the purchase of 12 Super Tucano aircraft from the Government of the United States of America, while another 5 attack/utility helicopters have been ordered from Italy. In a bid to optimally man the new structure for more effective and efficient employment of air power, the NAF recruited 7,244 young Nigerians as airmen/airwomen and 400 young graduates as officers, in the last three years. He said the move boosted the capacity of the Service to sufficiently curtail insecurity in the country, while also implicitly keying into the federal government policy of job creation for young Nigerians. The CAS said in line with his vision, the NAF has trained various officers and airmen/airwomen in different categories of air and ground crew. “The NAF has winged 92 pilots in the last three years alone, while 45 other student pilots are currently undergoing training both within and outside the country. Worthy of particular mention is the female officer undergoing training in the United States of America to become the first female fighter pilot in the history of the NAF. Similarly, for the frst time in the history of the NAF, another female pilot is currently undergoing training in South Africa to become the first NAF female helicopter pilot.   