Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi has lauded the federal government’s social investment programmes saying it should be expanded. The emir made the commendation yesterday when he received President Muhammadu Buhari in his palace in Kano. He specifically pointed out that as an economist, the two government policies he likes are the N5000 stipends to poor Nigerians and the school feeding programme. He stated that the 5000 naira payment to the poor should be expanded to capture at least 20 million Nigerians. According to him, the money budgeted for the programme is not enough compared to the money the government has expended on fuel subsidy. He also noted that the school feeding programme should be encouraged and expanded to accommodate more students and schools. The Emir also disclosed that his relationship with President Buhari goes beyond politics saying as leaders they have the responsibility of commenting on policies of government and point out areas where there is a need for improvement. He also urged the Independent National Electoral Commission to conduct the general elections peacefully saying the results should reflect the will of the people . While commending the state government for maintaining peace in the state, the Emir said the state had been devoid of ethno-religious crisis adding that everybody is a son and daughter of Kano. Earlier in his speech, President Buhari said he came to the state to thank them for their love and support shown to him. He also commended the security agencies for controlling the mammoth crowd who thronged out in mass to welcome him to the state. President Buhari said he came to remind the people of Kano what his administration had done and what they will do if reelected. Also speaking to journalists, Senator Kabiru Gaya said the 5 million votes promised Buhari in the state is a done deal. He also assured of delivering 1.6 million votes to Buhari in Kano south. According to him, the opposition PDP in Kano is virtually nonexistent as three out of the last four former governors in the state are in the APC. 