The federal government yesterday said it was targeting $2 billion revenue from the ongoing renewal of oil licence. The minister of state for petroleum resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, disclosed this while addressing a press conference at the just concluded Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS), in Abuja. Answering questions on how much has been generated from the endeavour, the minister said: “I can say that the projected receipt from early renewals is close to about $2 billion. Right now, I think we have about $1.3 or $1.4 billion; there are still some being finished. The total number of those renewed (I don’t have those figures here but) I think it will be close to about 25-30 renewals that we are looking at.” On the plans to revive the local refineries – as he had stated last December that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was at the final stage of negotiations with the project financiers -Kachikwu said NNPC was not comfortable with the terms the financiers where offering. “My work as a minister is policy direction. We have done the policy directions. We were involved in sourcing for financiers. We’ve got approval. We have negotiated with financiers and we had difficulty in reaching conclusions on terms, and for that reason it was stalled. I did say that, in December, we would meet and take a position on the matter and we did meet and we took a position – that NNPC should go and finalize this issue, which is either decided that the terms are acceptable or they are not. “Pursuant to that directive, NNPC did met with them. At the end of the day, they are going to be the ones that will manage the refineries. I cannot compel them to accept terms of engagement that are not comfortable to them. That is how it has to be; that is how to run a business. I can ask Chevron or Agip to accept terms they are not comfortable with.” “What I understand from the results they brought back to us is that they were not comfortable with the responses. I did call a final meeting to bring the parties together to try and get the terms worked out,” he said. Speaking on efforts to get the deal over the table, he went on: “I got approval in 2016 on this. I have worked very laboriously on this. I have pushed it at board level. I have made sure they get the financiers. I encouraged those deals to reach conclusion and they have shown an interest; they have their own expectations. NNPC has looked at the fundamentals (and) they are not quite happily with what they see on the table. They have to think of something new to present to the board. That meeting is slated for this week, but I will postpone it till next week.” Meanwhile, the director-general of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), Mr. Chidi Izuwah, has advised the federal government to hands off the running of the country’s refineries and to, instead, concession the facilities to allow private sector participation. Speaking as a panellist at the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (N IPS) yesterday, Mr. Izuwah, said allowing the private sector to run the sector would ensure that the country reaps true value from the petroleum industry, noting that the future of the industry is the private sector. According to him, the role of government is to create the enabling environment to attract investors into the sector the way it was done for the telecommunication industry. “Government has to play a role and break the back of government dominance in the downstream sector and bring in the private sector. This is the only way to go. When you bring in the private sector, you must change the incentive structure. “The NNPC refineries, we should concession them to the private sector. The investments would come. When you concession, they would rehabilitate, make further investments and recoup their money. “There is a huge opportunity in refining. Petroleum is the only thing that increases in volume when you process it. If you take 42 gallons of crude oil, it gives you 45 gallons. It actually breaks the laws of chemistry and physics. It increases in volume because of the cracks. It is a profitable business and we need to bring in the private sector. “The same thing for the infrastructure for distribution and reticulation. The entire depot system is not functional. There is no will. The depot system has to work. The depot system is a profitable business. You should also at the same time concession it to the private sector; they would make the investment and then those assets would start to earn revenue for government. Speaking in similar vein, the executive director, Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals Company Ltd, Mr. Edwin Devakumar, advised the federal government to allow private sector investors to manage the refineries, even as he cautioned the government against outright sale of the refineries. Devakumar, who was represented by a consultant to the company, Mr. Babajide Soyode, described the refineries as a goldmine located strategically in major markets in the country. He said, “NNPC refineries are goldmine; they are sitting in the best markets in the country. Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna. Dangote is going to occupy the fourth market, Lagos. “Why can’t NNPC reactivate or upgrade its refineries. They are not old. Upgrading, as any engineer would tell you, is standard in our industry. All these collocation and others are nonsense. Follow the industry standard, upgrade what you have. “We are talking of NNPC being efficient; those refineries were built at an average of $1 million: Warri for N357 million in 1978, Kaduna N377 million; that is roughly $1 million-$1.3 million now. If you have been subsidising, you don’t accrue enough to maintain the refineries, not to talk of upgrading or expanding. Then it is shameful that NNPC would be looking for $1 million to pay consultants for study. It’s a shame for Nigeria.” Also speaking, the chief operating officer, Refineries, at the NNPC, Mr. Anibor Kragha, noted that the fundamental issues impacting the ability or inability of the NNPC to deliver on their mandate had been primarily lack of funds and the infrastructure to deliver the products. According to him, the refineries in Nigeria are not that old on the global scale when compared across the board, but the issue had been lack of funding. “When you don’t have funding, you can’t maintain your assets. The last turnaround maintenance of the Port Harcourt refinery was in 2000; that of Warri was 2004, while that of Kaduna was 2008,” Kragha said. He disclosed that efforts to get private investors to revamp the refineries had been stalled because the Corporation and the proposed investors were not able to agree on the commercial terms, which caused the NNPC to consider undertaking a revamp of the refineries one after the other, involving the original manufacturer of the refineries. “We keep on talking about the refineries, but without the infrastructure to deliver. There is no reason why a truck would be going from Tin Can Island to Maiduguri to deliver PMS. The thrust of the government is to go out and get financial consortia that would deliver funding and technical expertise. “We spent time, we got consortia of traders and technical folks and spent over a year and half negotiating and, at the end, by December, we were willing to do financing, bring in private investments, without, of course, selling the refineries and giving unnecessary guarantees. But at the end of the day, we could not agree on the commercial terms. What we are doing now is that we are focusing on one refinery at a time; we are starting with Port Harcourt refinery, it is the largest one; it alone can deliver about 11 million litres of PMS.” Kragha explained that, if fixed, the three NNPC refineries together had the capacity to produce about 22.4 million litres of petrol per day, while the Dangote refinery can deliver about 53 million litres, giving the country more than enough of the product for domestic consumption and for export.