Concerns about the 2019 general elections as well as the cautious stand adopted by Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) and other domestic portfolio managers over unfolding political events in the country have resulted in a huge loss of N1.888 trillion by stocks market investors in 2018. The key performance indicator of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), the All Share Index (ASI), opened the year at 38,243.19 points and closed at 31,430.50 points on December 31, 2018, indicating 17.81 per cent decline. Similarly the market capitalisation of listed equities went down by N1.888 trillion to close the year at N11.721 trillion from N13.609 trillion on December 29, 2017. In 2017, NSE was ranked best performing in Africa, ranking the third best in the world last year by ‘CNN Money’ after recording a whopping 48 per cent returns on investments during the year. Sector performance in the year was largely bearish, as the NSE Industrial Goods index depreciated the most, losing 37.34 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y). NSE ASeM followed with a yearly decline of 26.99 per cent; NSE Consumer Goods posted 23.28 per cent yearly decline, NSE 30 reduced by 18.87 per cent, while NSE Banking shed 16.09 per cent. NSE Lotus, NSE Insurance and NSE Oil and Gas indices depreciated by 12.75 per cent, 9.25 per cent and 8.61 per cent respectively for the period under review. Market breadth closed the year negative with 25 gainers and 69 losers. Cement Company of Northern Nigeria led the gainers table by 104.21 per cent, Unity Bank followed with a yearly gain of 101.89 per cent, while sterling Bank recorded a growth of 75.93 per cent. Others are NEM Insurance, Learn Africa, Caverton Offshore Support Group, Vita Foam Nigeria, Diamond Bank, Custodian Investment and Fidson Healthcare, which rose by 62.65 per cent, 54.55 per cent, 48.84 per cent, 46.67 per cent, 45.33 per cent, 45.24 per cent and 33.78 per cent gain respectively in 2018. On the other side, Lafarge Africa led the decliners table for 2018 by 72.27 per cent, while AG Leventis followed with a decline of 61.43 per cent. Universal Insurance, Sunu Assurance, FTN Cocoa, Cornerstone Insurance declined by 60 per cent each, while Japaul Oil and Maritime Services, Regency Aliance Insurance, Sovereign Trust Insurance and Mutual Benefit Assurance depreciated by 58 per cent each for the year. In an interview with Leadership, the acting director-general of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mary Uduk said, “A large percentage of those who do business in our market are foreign investors and as at the third quarter of 2018, the capital outflow stood at N513 billion as against N477.7 billion incoming. “We can see that the impact of increase in interest rate in advanced countries, not just in the US, has impact on capital outflow thereby leading to reduced performance in our markets. I want to say that the interest rate increase in advanced economies, not just the US, does not affect only Nigeria but also affects other emerging and frontiers market in the world.” Also, at the Economic and Business Review in 2018 and Outlook for 2019 of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), the director-general of the Chamber, Muda Yusuf, had said Year to Date (YtD) loss of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) All Share Index stood at a loss of 20.37 per cent as at December 20, 2018. He stated that the market decline was due largely to factors such as the increasing U.S. treasury yields, and in anticipation of more rate hikes by the U.S. Fed as well as investors’ skepticism around the country’s 2019 general election, adding that market realities fell short of LCCI’s projections expectation for 2018. Giving instances, Yusuf said the implementation of policy reforms such as the Investors & Exporters FX window, increased dollar liquidity and moderated rate of inflation failed to keep the equity market in green. He however said notwithstanding, Nigeria’s macroeconomic fundamentals remain stable and supportive of market recovery over medium to long term; thus, the equity market holds a decent entry opportunity for investors with a medium to longer term horizon. Speaking on stocks market performance in 2018, the chairman of Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Patrick Ezeagu, said, “Perhaps we may remind the political class that uncertainties and all sorts of insecurities that currently pervade our country affect investors’ sentiments, asset valuations, market and country risk profile and portfolio allocation decisions. “In recent times, trading statistics on the securities markets in Nigeria have been reflecting investors’ apathy to unprecedented level of tension that portends likely breakdown of law and order in the 2019 general elections.” “It is an unassailable investor-behaviour that bad news trigger market panic and investors over-react to such news. As the country’s economic barometers, the securities markets in Nigeria have continued to reflect investors’ apprehensions to instability in the political and economic landscape through all their indices. “This has largely accounted for the inability of our market to fully recover from the effects of the 2008 financial crisis, notwithstanding the efforts made by the regulators and operators to fully revive the market. There is clear and present danger if the trend continues.” The managing director of Highcap Securities Limited, Mr David Adonri, said that the market witnessed a lot of withdrawal from equities by investors this year as a result of dwindling investor’s confidence which can be linked to the increasing country risk caused by political uncertainty, as the country drive towards the general elections and some negative macroeconomic statistics. According to him, the headline inflation has started to increase and the rate of decline of inflation rate has also diminished, even as the growth rate of the economy is no longer increasing compared to the previous quarter. “Those are some of the factors that adversely affected investor’s confidence in the economy. Otherwise, there are other positives that ought to give confidence in the economy like the foreign exchange rate and monetary policy rate has been stable”, he added. Analysts at United Capital Plc stated that with the performance of the stock market declining, the Nigerian bourse is by far one of the worst performing across emerging and frontier markets. “Nonetheless, we reiterate that opportunities in the equities space are for patient, discerning investors who are ready to hunt bargains on fundamentally solid stocks for long-term prospects”, the noted.