Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has restated the concern of Buhari led administration in tackling challenge of unemployment, saying plans are underway to increase beneficiaries of its empowerment and social investment programme, N-power from 500,000 to 1,000,000. Osinbajo revealed that 500,000 Nigerians who were hitherto jobless have been employed under this scheme with over 350,000 of them armed with specialised tablets stored with various skills acquisition training that could further be deployed for further wealth creations. He explained that the investment of the present administration on infrastructure especially road, power and rail was to create an enabling environment that would further attract investment and provide more jobs for teeming Nigerians. The Vice President stated this at a town hall meeting with people of Remo federal constituency held at Remo Traditional Council hall, Akarigbo palace, Sagamu. He disclosed that other social investment programmes of the present administration such as Tradermoni under which petty traders were given N10,000, Marketmoni, home grown school feeding programmes among others were all targeted towards tackling unemployment. Osinbajo said “Tackling unemployment is no doubt a major concern to our administration. This is why we commence N-power, our social investment programme under which 500,000 young Nigerian graduates have benefited with over 350,000 getting tablets stored with various skills acquisition training that could further be of help to them. ‘’ We even have plans to increase beneficiaries of this scheme to 1,000,000. Tradermoni, Marketmoni for our petty traders and home grown school feeding programmes are all efforts targeted towards reducing scourge of unemployment in the country”. Assuring the people of more federal presence in form of people oriented projects, Osinbajo said the federal government was already working on Sagamu/Ikorodu road, Sagamu/Benin/Ore expressway, expansion of Sagamu transmission substation to improve on power supply in Remo land among others. Osinbajo had earlier met with Remo Traditional Council led by the Akarigbo and Paramount ruler of Remo land, Oba Babatunde Ajayi where he informed them that he was in Remo land to flag off the presidential campaign for 2019 elections. The Vice President was also at his home town, Ikenne Remo to commission the newly reconstructed Ikenne ultramodern market. In the entourage of the Vice President were his wife, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, Chief Segun Osoba, former governor of Ogun State, Prince Segun Adesegun, former deputy governor of Ogun State, Sen Gbenga Kaka, Sen Gbenga Obadara, Prince Dapo Abiodun, Ogun APC governorship candidate, Sen Babafemi Ojudu, Special Adviser on political affairs to the Vice President among others.