Nigerian workers have turned down the N27,000 new minimum wage endorsed for them yesterday by the National Council of State The new figure is N3,000 below the N30,000 the federal government and organised labour agreed upon and N4,500 above the N22,500 offered by the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF). In what industry watchers described as the “spirit of give and take” or intermediary role, the Council, which is the nation’s advisory body to the president, asked the workers to accept N27,000 as the new national wage. But, in spontaneous reactions, the three prominent workers’ bodies: the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the Trade Union Congress (TUC), and the United Labour Congress (ULC), said that the figure was unacceptable to them. The first shot at the offer came from the NLC general secretary, Peter Ozo-Eson, who declared that the Council has no jurisdiction to determine a separate amount after a tripartite committee had adopted N30,000 as minimum wage and submitted its report to the federal government. He said that NLC had fixed a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting for Friday to consider its next line of action. Ozo-Eson warned that workers should not be held responsible for any untoward development after the NEC meeting. The NLC scribe said that the government with the action was calling for a shutdown of the economy. NLC said that it was absurd for the government to be delaying the submission of an executive bill to the National assembly and wrongfully adopting N27,000 through the Council of State. The TUC said that of N27,000 recommended by the National Council of State after the federal government had agreed to pay N30,000 was an after-thought and deceptive. In a statement he signed yesterday, TUC president, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama, said that the Council’s decision though advisory in nature was weighty and may give the semblance of authority to it. Kaigama said: “This decision must not be allowed to stand because it will set a wrong precedence for the future, that is, after statutory bodies have done their jobs, the Council of State will now sit to review it. “Let it be known that N30,000 minimum wage is a product of negotiation, not legislation, not an advice and not a decree,” he said. TUC stressed that the minimum wage issue, therefore, is moving to a new theatre – the National Assembly, adding that, “we expect the representatives of the people if really they are to do the needful during the public hearing.” Similarly, the ULC said that the N27,000 was unacceptable to it, asserting that the National Council of State lacked the powers to approve, confirm, affirm or accept any figure as the new national minimum wage. ULC president, Joe Ajaero, said:  “What they have pretended to have done is therefore without any force of law, standards or other known practices of industrial relations the world over.” Ajaero, in a statement, he issued yesterday, said that “it is a mockery of the essence and principle behind the setting of a national minimum wage to attempt to segregate it between Federal Workers and State Workers. “We want to state that workers are workers everywhere whether at the Federal Level or at the State Level. They all have the same challenges; go to the same market, same schools and much more they suffer the same fate. You cannot therefore pay them differently,” he said. He urged President Buhari to disregard the position of the National Council of State as it ridicules the statutes and principles governing the nation. According, “The only honourable path he should tread is to transmit the N30,000 figure as agreed by the tripartite committee and even the president on the day of submission of the committee’s report. We will not accept the use of any cover of state to jettison the collective will of Nigerian workers and the trade union movement.”  FG Transmit Bill To NASS Today Meanwhile, the executive bill on the new minimum wage will be transmitted to the National Assembly today. The minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, dropped the hint to State House correspondents after the Council of State meeting at the presidential villa, Abuja. He described the N27,000 proposal as only the benchmark, adding that the federal government would pay N30,000 to its workers. According to him, organisations with less than 25 personnel have been exempted from applying it. Ngige asserted that the approved amount is subject to review after five years. He said: “We have had a series of consultations on the new national minimum wage starting from the inauguration of the tripartite committee in September 2017 by Mr. President. “This committee was to handle all the issues surrounding the new minimum wage. It made use of laws, the constitution, conventions on minimum wage fixing and specialist bodies such as the National Bureau of Statistics, NISER and all other bodies that have to do with economic research. “The Federal Executive Council (FEC) received the report. After a tortuous debate, at that level, the National Economic Council (NEC) comprising the governors and the vice president chairing, looked at the report and finally today, the Council of State. These three organs have permitted Mr. President now to transmit to the National Assembly the new National Minimum Wage Bill. “Thus, in consonance with the fact that the issues of national minimum wage prescription is in the exclusive list, second schedule, item 34 and being on that list, it is not a job that can be done by the executive alone. The president has to transmit the bill to the National Assembly which will take legislative action and return the bill that has been so treated to the president for his assent. “So, a bill will now be transmitted to the National Assembly that will amend the 1981 Act and 2011 Act. The highlight is what you want to know. The figure of N27,000 monthly has been approved for transmission to the National Assembly. The frequency of the review of the bill is five years, to get it in consonance with pension law of the federation as enshrined in the constitution. “Exemptions to this bill will be establishments that are not employing people up to the number of 25. The various times prescribed have also been altered in the bill and will be sent to the National Assembly before the close of work tomorrow (today),” he stated. Before now, the federal government had offered to pay N24,000; states, N22,500 while the organized labour insisted on N30,000.  INEC Boss Briefs Council On Preparations For Polls Also yesterday, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, briefed the Council on the readiness of the electoral body for the forthcoming general elections. Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, told State House correspondents that the Council was convinced that INEC was ready for the election. He said: “The Council was briefed by the INEC chairman and the briefing as accepted by everybody was lucid and clear. It was all encompassing. The INEC chairman took the Council through all the processes that are going to be followed at the national and state elections. “In his briefing, he informed the Council of the preparedness of INEC and everybody at the meeting was convinced that INEC was ready for the election. And a lot of things have been put in place and I think we all concluded that it is important for the chairman to even speak to the nation on the preparedness of the commission for this election. “That would convince all of us that this forthcoming election would be free and fair and then the way we see it. They have improved card readers, the details of what have been done to improve it was made known. It was made known that the process of continuous voting and accreditation system was the best so that when you are accredited, you vote at the same time and leave the venue.” Akeredolu further stated that the INEC boss also informed the Council on all the ballot boxes and everything to be used and changes in the ballot boxes. The governor said: “He also informed us that rather than using collapsible ballot boxes, INEC will use framed ballot boxes, transparent ones because we have lost so many and a lot have been purchased. “INEC also told the Council that they are not lacking in terms finance and that all the money appropriated had been given to them and they are ready for the election. And he went further to inform the Council that all training and retraining of every category of staff that will be used have started and they are having consultations with every group of people, religious, artisans and trade unions and so on to let them know,” he said. On the alarm raised by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that the electoral body may be partisan in the polls, the governor said: “Well, let me tell you, this point you made, the chairman of INEC without being specific made a point. And that point is what I want all of us not only in this hall but the whole of Nigeria to note  is that the success of election is not by INEC alone. “He said the election will only be successful by the participation of everybody and that whatever it may be, we must take politics out of the exercise. All of us owe a duty as leaders of our people at least, to be sure that we have confidence in the electoral body and assist the electoral body to succeed,” Akeredolu said. On the allegations by the federal government that opposition elements were plotting to use Boko Haram insurgents and bandits to scuttle the forthcoming general elections, Governor Akeredolu said that he matter was not discussed. “Seriously, there was no discussion on that. As we mentioned to you, what we received was briefing by INEC on how prepared they are for the election. So, their level of preparedness that was what we listened to,” he said. Obasanjo, former Goodluck Jonathan, former head of state, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, and head of the defunct Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan, attended the meeting. Others were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Bukola Saraki, and former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mohammed Uwais. The governors of Osun, Kebbi, Zamfara, Plateau, Ebonyi, Adamawa, Edo, Lagos, Niger, Borno, Ogun, Ekiti, and Kogi States were also present at the meeting. The deputy governors of Bauchi, Kaduna and Rivers represented their states while the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, Head of Service, Winifred Oyo-Ita, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno,and  FCT Minister, Mohammed Bello, also attended it. Former heads of state, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida and former CJN Mariam Muktar sent apologises for their absence. 