The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), will release the final list of candidates for governorship, State Assembly and FCT Area Council elections today, the chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu said yesterday. Speaking during the swearing-in of a new Resident Electoral Commissioner, Elder Monday UdoTom, who was also posted to Bayelsa State, Yakubu said the publication of the final list will mark the 11 items the commission listed on its timetable and schedule of activities. The commission said candidates for governorship, state Assembly and FCT Area Council elections are to check their list today in all its offices across the country. While swearing in Elder Monday Udo Tom as REC, INEC chairman, Prof Yakubu said the final list of the candidates will be published in all its state offices nationwide and the commission’s website, on Thursday 31st January, 2019. The new REC who hails from Akwa Ibom State, holds a BSc degree in Biological Science and a Masters degree in Microbiology. Until his appointment, Tom has served as a lecturer and a civil servant in Akwa Ibom State. “Your appointment is coming just 16 days to the 2019 General Elections. We have already implemented 10 out of the 14 activities in our timetable and schedule of activities,” Yakubu said. “It is my pleasure to address you on the occasion of the swearing-in of a new Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) whose nomination was confirmed by the Senate last week. The appointment of Elder Monday Udo Tom from Akwa Ibom State brings the total number of RECs nationwide to 36 out of 37 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Commission is awaiting the confirmation and appointment of the nominee for Osun State.” “Let me, therefore, congratulate Elder Monday Udo Tom on your appointment. As I told your colleagues on the occasion of their swearing-in as Resident Electoral Commissioners, you will also be responsible for the implementation of the commission’s policies.” “In doing so, you will exercise supervisory control over personnel, resources as well as the legal and administrative processes in the State to which you are posted. You will also interact with various categories of stakeholders. In doing so, you must maintain the required openness and consultation. At the same time, you must be very firm and courageous on the side of the law as well as our regulations and guidelines at all times as required of an unbiased umpire,” Yakubu said adding that as a REC, Tom can be posted to any part of the country at any time as the exigencies of service require. “For now, you will be posted to a State within your geo-political zone but you will never serve in your State of origin throughout your tenure. In line with this principle, you are hereby deployed to Bayelsa State,” Yakubu added.