Nigeria runs the risk of losing a substantial part of its $6 billion (N2.16trn) annual freight income to insecurity in the nation’s maritime sector, LEADERSHIP reports. Nigeria earns over $6 billion annually from freight charges but may not be able to retain the money in the economy due to piracy, sea-robbery and other maritime crimes on the nation’s waters. It was gathered that because of the activities of these sea criminals, ships bound for Nigeria usually make extra security arrangements and pass the costs to Nigeria, which would now pay those costs. However, the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, has revealed that the federal government plans to invest in maritime security to reduce piracy in Nigeria’s waters so as to have a sizeable chunk of the $6 billion (N2.16 trillion) annual freight costs for the country retained in the Nigerian economy. But this remains a tall order as Nigeria’s waters have been flagged by the global body, International Maritime Bureau (IMB), as the most notorious and dangerous in the region due to constant pirate attacks and sea robberies. For instance, the first quarter 2018 report from the IMB showed an increase in the number of incidents recorded in the Gulf of Guinea region, which went from 16 in the first half of 2017 to 46 in 2018, with 31 incidents recorded in Nigeria’s territorial waters alone. The report, which has the first, second and third quarters of 2018 statistics, also listed Nigeria, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Venezuela and Benin Republic as leading the table in the number of attempted attacks, number of vessels boarded by pirates, number of vessels fired upon, number of hijacked vessels and number of suspicious boats operated by pirates. A breakdown of the report further revealed that of Nigeria’s 31 recorded attacks, bulk carriers suffered the most in the attacks against vessels with 39 of such vessels being attacked since the beginning of the year. Tanker vessels also recorded 30 attacks in the first six months of the year while passenger vessels recorded only one attack so far this year. On the number of attacks on vessels on anchorage, Nigeria led other countries with 14 of such attacks, followed by Indonesia with 11 and Bangladesh with seven. Also, armed robbers attacked two tankers off the coast of Nigeria on January 7, according to data provided by IMB Piracy Reporting Centre. Stakeholders have argued that piracy attacks in the Nigerian maritime domain are taking an alarming toll on shipping in Nigeria’s territorial waters and the Gulf of Guinea. Aside earning Nigeria’s waters the notorious status as the most dangerous in the region, the situation was also said to be partially responsible for the nation’s bleeding economy as over $2.74 billion was paid by the country in the past four years as insurance surcharges and other sundry surcharges imposed on Nigerian shipments simply because the country’s territorial waters were not safe for navigation. Another report released by the secretary-general on the activities of the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (UNOWAS) said Nigeria lost another $2.8 billion revenue to oil-related crimes in 2018, mainly due to maritime crime and piracy off the coast of West Africa. The secretary-general, in a report released on Monday in New York covering July 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018, said that maritime crime had continued to pose a threat to the peace, security and development in the region. The revelation by UNOWAS added: “Oil-related crimes resulted in the loss of nearly $2.8 billion in revenues last year in Nigeria, according to government figures. Between January 1 and November 23, there were 82 reported incidents of maritime crime and piracy in the Gulf of Guinea.” Speaking on the worrisome situation and the attendant losses to the Nigerian economy, a former director-general of Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Temisan Omotseye, said, “Shipowners will tell you that they are not going anywhere east. They call it ‘five degrees east’. Any ship that goes five degrees east will have what is called ‘war risk premium’, and each day a vessel stays in that domain, it pays $1000 to the insurance company. The insurance companies collect up to $300 million per year on war risk and there is no claim.” Also speaking to LEADERSHIP, the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) called on the management of NIMASA to frontally confront the issue of piracy on the nation’s waters. According to the president-general of the union, Adewale Adeyanju, the union lost many seafarers to piracy in 2018. “I think NIMASA, which is the regulatory agency, is doing a good job and I pray it will do more even though the challenge has been on for a couple of months but they are trying their best. But we want government to strengthen them and empower them to do more. Last year, we lost so many seafarers and investors as a result of piracy. So, we pray that this year will better than last year,” he said.