The federal government has summoned the contractor handling the rehabilitation of Mararaba Mubi-Michika-Madagali Road in Adamawa State to an urgent meeting in Abuja for non-performance. The Hon. Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Mustapha Baba Shehuri issued the summon after doing on-the-spot accessment of the progress made on the project so far and discovered that the contract whose completion deadline was September, 2018 had achieved only 1.3% completion, three months after expiration. The contract of rehabilitating the 90km road, which was awarded to Rhas Nig. Ltd in the total sum of N14. 4 billion to be completed in 18 months, with commencement date of 27 March, 2017 and completion date of 26 September, 2018, is at 1.3% completion after it has lapsed for three months. The three bridges involved were destroyed during the peak of the attack by insurgents in the area, and they constitute the only link between the area and other parts of the country.  Now people and small vehicles manage to navigate through the waters as they have reduced drastically as a result of the dry season. The Minister said, “Going by what I see here, I am not impressed at all by the performance of the contractor. At the same time, I am shocked to hear that designing of a bridge would take a year in the ministry where we have a lot of engineers. “I just can’t comprehend that, and I think we have to sit down with the contractor again. I am inviting the contractor and you, the controller to come to my office in Abuja on Monday. “This contract has lapsed and the job done so far is 1.3%. There is nothing to explain here. We need to go back to the drawing board and see whether you can continue or have the contract terminated. “This road is very important, being the link between Adamawa and Borno states up to the border and Cameroon.” Speaking earlier, the member representing the Magadali-Michika constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Adamu Kamale who joined and welcomed the Minister at the site on behalf of his people said because of the economic importance of the road to the  communities, they have been on the neck of the contractor for two years and kept encouraging him on a daily basis to make him perform but to no avail as, according to him, the contractor has not fulfilled even one of many promises he made concerning the project. Hon. Kamale who appeal for emergency intervention of the federal government even as effort to make the contract work is on said, “Hon. Minister, do everything possible within the power of the ministry to make sure that the contractor is called to order or has his contract terminated as a matter of urgency,” adding that if the people had been informed prior to the Minister’s visit, they would have turned up in multitude to present that as their position. While briefing the Minister earlier, the Federal Controller of Works, Adamawa State, Engr Salihu Abubakar admitted that the contract time has lapsed at about 120% while about N2.2 billion have been collection as part of mobilisation. He however stated that security challenges and the delay in getting the design from the ministry were also part of the problems that caused the set back suffered by the project, even as he acknowledged the non-performance of the contractor.