Gunmen suspected to be militants group, known as Koluama Seven Brothers over the weekend launched a bomb attack on the crude oil pipeline carrying owned by ConOil at Koluama community in Southern Ijaw area of Bayelsa State. LEADERSHIP gathered that the indigenes of the Koluama communities were woken up on Friday by a deafening sound which triggered panic in the area. The factional President of the Ijaw Youths Council, Barr. Eric Omare, who cautioned against early attribution of the bomb attack to a militant group or resumption of hostilities in the Niger Delta region, promised to investigate and issue a detailed statement. According to him, “I am yet to get the details of the pipeline explosion hence it would be premature to assume that it was a militant attack. I will issue a detail statement” LEADERSHIP however received a statement from the group, which called itself KOLUAMA SEVEN BROTHERS, and claimed responsibilities for the attack, stated that the  attack is a warning to the ConOil company. According to the statement, “Our Early Hours Strike Of 12:20am 4th January 2019 At Angle2 Field Of Conoil Is Just A Warning To Conoil, King Solomon Eddy And His Cartel If Conoil And King Solomon Fails To Address The Issues Behind The MOU, SCHOLARSHIPS, JOB CREATION FOR PEACE LOVE PEOPLE OF KOLUAMA CLAN. Then We Get No Other Option Than To Lunch A Strike To Shut Down Conoil.” Angel Michael said. A Youth leader of Koluama community, Comrade Henry Omietimi, confirmation that, he was briefed of the incident by his deputy who was a member of a local security attached to the area, but yet to ascertain it full details. He further said he was still making his investigations to ascertain the authenticity of the story, and determine if it was an attack or a pipeline burst. Some Indigenes of the community are suspecting the resumption of hostility by Niger delta militants group, as they confirmed that the sound heard was similitude to sounds of previous attacks on oil pipeline. Also a source from the oil firm who pleaded anonymity, said, the incident had since sent a message of discomfort to the heart of many workers, as they were uncertain of the event. Confirming the incident, the Media Officer to the Bayelsa Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense, .J. N. Harcourt,  said though the incident occurred, “am yet to receive full details from the Officer in Charge of Koluama due to bad network”. 