The rains of tributes that have trailed the demise of Nigeria’s First Executive President, Alhaji Shehu Shagari in Nigeria, Africa and beyond, has been extended to the United States, as condolence register has been opened for Friends of Nigeria and the Shagari family to afford them the opportunity to pay their last tributes to a man that has been widely regarded one of Nigeria’s greatest leader. The Nigerian Missions in the US made this possible with the opening of Condolence Registers. The condolence registers were opened on Monday, December 31, 2018, at the Embassy of Nigeria in Washington, D.C., and the Consulates-General in New York and Atlanta for members of the public wishing to register their condolences. The registers would be open till Friday, January 4. A statement by Amb. Hassan Gambo, Deputy Head of Mission at the Nigerian Embassy in US, which was made available to LEADERSHIP , indicated that the Embassy had written to the US Department of State to inform the US Government about Shagari’s death. “The US Department of State will then send the information to the other embassies in the country about the death of the former president,’’ Gambo said. According to him, ambassadors to the US are also expected to sign the condolence registers on behalf of their Governments. The Consul-General of Nigeria in New York, Mr Ben Okoyen said that the condolence register was also opened to members of the public. Okoyen said members of the public have been coming to register their condolences to Nigeria over the loss of its former president. The condolence register for Shagari also opened at the Nigerian Consulate in Atlanta on Wednesday, January 2, to Friday, January 4, from 11:30am to 3:00pm, the Acting Consul-General of Nigeria in Atlanta, Mr Innocent Iwejuo, announced in a statement. Shagari, who was Sworn-in as Nigeria’s first democratically elected president on 1st October, 1979, and served until 31 December, 1983, died on December 28, 2018, at the age of 93 at National Hospital in Abuja.