President Muhammadu yesterday in Enugu, Enugu State, commissioned a centre for international postgraduate studies named “Centre of Excellence” built by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The study/research Centre was solely funded by the CBN and handed over to the University of Nigeria (UNN), Enugu Campus. The Centre has 3-block buildings of 150 postgraduate hostel accommodation, 500 seater auditorium, with multimedia presentation gadgets as well as a tele-conference center where students can stay in a classroom and receive lectures and seminars from Universities globally. It has an e-library and a conventional library, with classrooms that are furnished with state of the art teaching and learning facilities. It has two restaurants. It’s an exclusive postgraduate center that will have collaborative efforts with other foreign schools like Harvard and Stanford Universities. In his address at the commissioning ceremony yesterday, President Buhari said the facility came to keep face not only with time and technology, but also the requirement of the greater good population of students and other stakeholders, which he said has largely been due to poor funding of the education sector over the years. “As an administration, we are committed and determined to continue to reverse this situations even in the face of dwindling government resources,” President Buhari said. He said the event is part of his administration’s commitment to address the situation of poor teaching and learning facilities in the education sector, adding that the facility that was fully funded by the CBN The President also noted that the state of education in terms of outreach and affordability has direct bearing on the Nigeria’s aspirations and the collective desire for poverty reduction, securing the nation, not only in infrastructure gap and resolving hope for a brighter future.  “We shall not rest until we deliver on this commitment,” he added. Besides the new Centre for University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu campus, the CBN had built such research centres at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and University of Ibadan. “Basically it is the contribution of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) towards uplifting the standards of education in Nigeria,” says CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, adding that “each of these projects, costs nothing less than N9 billion.” Mr. Emefiele said the second phase of the intervention has about seven centres coming up under the CBN endowment programme. The last administration in CBN did set up a N10 billion endowment Programme about nine years ago. “As we speak, that endowment has grown to about N23billion,” the CBN Governor disclosed. Vice Chancellor of UNN, Nsukka Prof. Benjamin Chukwuma Ozurumba says the facility “means everything for the school,” while applauding the CBN for intervening to raise the bar in education sector. “This is a very laudable initiative. “This marks a turning point in tertiary education in Nigeria. The talk about town to gown, this is now government to gown.  Government came directly to institutionalise the use of this edifice for the educational programme of the financial sector. So much has been said about the economy of the nation. This is a shot in the arm for the economy of the nation under the initiative of the federal government of Nigeria and the CBN,” Prof. Ozurumba added. Meanwhile, the President, who kicked off his campaign in the Southeast yesterday, promised Ndigbo while in Onitsha that he would commence the East/North railway line if re-elected He therefore urged them to trust him and vote him for second term so that he can execute the East-North corridor of the railway project. Buhari said that the railway would start from Port Harcourt through Owerri, Nnewi, Enugu and Ebonyi before moving to Maiduguri. Buhari said:  “During our 2015 campaign, we promised we will do the second Niger Bridge, construct roads, provide security and ensure the economy is better. “Today, we are doing all that we said, we have even completed work on Zik’s Mausoleum and other projects,” he said.