The National Youth Coalition of Nigeria (NYCN) and youth leaders from different ethnic nationalities in Nigeria have endorsed the second term bid of President Muhammadu Buhari. The youth leaders gave their endorsement yesterday in Port Harcourt at an event that was attended by the 774 local government coordinators and 36 state chairmen of the National Youth Coalition of Nigeria, as well as over fifty thousand members of the groups drawn from the 36 states of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. Speaking at the event, which was also used to mark his birthday, National Coordinator of the Coalition, Ambassador Sukubo Sara-Igbe Sukubo, said the constitution of the group recognises the President as the grand patron of the youth body hence the need to support his re-election. Sukubo charged local government coordinators and state chairmen of the National Youth Coalition of Nigeria including FCT Abuja to mobilise youths in their various localities to ensure the victory of Buhari at the poll. He said: “In this historic event of my birthday celebration with the leadership of the National Youth Coalition of Nigeria, I was directed by the coalition to make the following proclamation: that according to our constitution, the President and his wife are Grand Patron and Grand Matron respectively. “It is on the strength of the above, that the coalition through me, the national coordinator has decreed and declared that all the 36 state chairmen, including the FCT, the 776 local government coordinators and all the executives at all levels, should work to deliver President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term during the February 2019 general election. “This is because as the Grand Patron of the National Youth Coalition of Nigeria, we can not abandon our own. Already, we are mobilising massive support across the country for the re-election of President Buhari.” “We are given him 500,000 votes from each of the Niger Delta states. Our support for the re-election of President Buhari is base on our believe in his style of government and his achievements in office. We urge all Nigerians to return Mr President for a 2nd term in office because he means well for this country.” Sukubo, called for a peaceful and credible election urged the youths to be law abiding and shun all forms of criminality, said: “As the National Coordinator of the National Youth Coalition of Nigeria, I hereby urge all youths to obey the law and shun all forms of criminal activities”.