Organised labour yesterday took the struggle for the actualisation of the N30,000 new minimum wage to the National Assembly (NASS) which it impressed upon to ignore the N27,000 salary recommended by the National Council of State for the least paid worker in Nigeria. The workers threatened that depending on where the pendulum on the raging wage crisis swings, they would make a bold statement at the forthcoming presidential and National Assembly elections to let political officeholders know that workers are not pushovers in the country’s power equation. On Tuesday, the National Council State, the country’s highest advisory body met at the presidential villa, where the members endorsed N27,000 as the country’s new national wage. The Council comprising serving and former Nigerian presidents/head of state, National Assembly top hierarchy, former chief justices of Nigeria (CJNs) and governors of the 36 states of the federation, among others, took a middle position on the wage brouhaha as it recommended N27,000 as the more realistic wage. The leaders’ proposal is N3,000 below the N30,000 deal reached by the federal government and the labour unions and N4,500 above the N22,500 the state governors agreed to pay. As soon as the news of the Council’s decision was broken on Tuesday, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the United Labour Congress (ULC) roundly rejected the figure. The unions declared that there was no going back on the N30,000 already reached with the federal government. The NLC said that it would hold a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting tomorrow to decide on the next line of action. But yesterday, the core beneficiaries of the new wage under the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) rejected the N27,000 offer and enjoined the National Assembly to override the Council of State by approving passing the  N30,000 National Minimum Wage Bill once the Executive arm of government passes it to the Legislature. The workers vowed not to settle for anything lesser than the N30,000 monthly salary as agreed by the federal government and labour. The minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, who spoke on the outcome of the Council of State meeting, explained that the N27,000 was only a benchmark for the states, adding that the federal  government would pay the agreed N30,000. ASCSN argued yesterday that since the tripartite committee saddled with the task of providing a new national minimum wage had concluded its assignment and recommended the amount, the Council of State action was unwarranted. In a press statement issued in Lagos yesterday, ASCSN national president, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama and the secretary-general, Comrade Alade Bashir Lawal, emphasised that lawmakers being the representatives of the people cannot afford to short-change Nigerian workers by siding with the Executive arm of government bent on scuttling the negotiated N30,000 minimum pay. Kaigama said: “As we write, Nigeria has become the poorest country in the world. Yet instead of approving a living wage for workers, the presidency is hiding under the National Council of State to subvert N30,000 monthly national minimum wage recommended by the tripartite committee after extensive consultations and deliberations including touring of the six geo-political zones of the country before it arrived at the figure. “Indeed, by recommending two parallel minimum wage, one for federal workers and the other for state governments, the government is attempting to break the ranks of workers, which will not work,” he said. Similarly, the TUC and ULC have described the Council’s decision as unfortunate and shocking. Kaigama, who doubles as TUC president, said that the decision must not be allowed to stand because it would set a wrong precedence, arguing that the Council lacked the power to alter the position already taken by statutory bodies. Kaigama said: “Let it be known that N30,000 minimum wage is a product of negotiation, not legislation, not advice and not a decree. “Minimum wage issue therefore is moving to a new theatre, the National Assembly. We expect the representative of the people if really they are to do the needful during the public hearing. ”If President Muhammadu Buhari takes the N27,000 agreed by the National Council of State to the lawmakers, organised labour will provide necessary documents and agreements reached by the tripartite committee to lobby for N30, 000,’’ Kaigama said. To ULC, the news that the National Council of State unilaterally proposed N27, 000 as the new wage “is shocking and goes against the grain of all known traditions and practices of industrial relations especially as it concerns national minimum wage setting framework. Its president, Joe Ajaero said: “ULC rising from its just-concluded Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting today (yesterday) in Lagos rejects in its entirety the proposed N27, 000 which is contrary to the N30,000 agreed by the National Minimum Wage Tripartite Committee and which has since been submitted to the president. “We state that the National Council of State in a national minimum wage setting mechanism is an aberration. It is also important that we make it clear that the National Council of State does not have powers to approve, confirm, affirm or accept any figure as the new national minimum wage. What they have pretended to have done is therefore without any force of law, standards or other known practices of industrial relations the world over.” He said that it was a mockery of the essence and principle behind the setting of a national minimum wage to attempt to segregate it between federal and state workers. Ajaero declared: “We want to state that workers are workers everywhere whether at the federal level or at the state level. They all have the same challenges; go to the same market, same schools and much more they suffer the same fate. You cannot therefore pay them differently. “The government’s attempt at this dichotomy is an effort at segregation and apartheid in nature. It is an attempt to put a sword within the trade union movement and to further the marginalisation of private sector workers in Nigeria thus seek to weaken the trade union movement in the country. “ULC saw this coming earlier in January and that was why we distanced ourselves. We will, however, in the next few days in consultation with other labour centres, if they are still in the struggle for a just national minimum wage, take steps to ensure that the interests of Nigerian workers as they concern the national minimum wage are protected,” he said. Also, Femi Falana who is lawyer to NLC, said: “With profound respect, the members of the Council acted ultra vires as it has no power whatsoever to approve minimum wage. It is not an approving authority but an advisory body to the president in the areas listed in Part 1 of the Schedule to the Constitution. And the areas do not cover minimum wage.” Public sector workers in Nigeria currently earn some of the lowest wages in the world. But public office holders, including members of the country’s bicameral legislature earn some of the fattest pay in the world, according to analysts. The head of the International Relations Unit of the NLC, Mr. Uche Ekwe, condemned the Council’s decision on the matter. According to Ekwe, it will be needless for any further meeting either by the Council of State or technical committee after the tripartite committee had reached an agreement. He said that workers in states, local councils and especially those in the private sector deserved to be paid N30,000 as minimum wage Workers in Nigeria currently receive N18, 000 as minimum wage. The figure came into effect in 2011 when former President Goodluck Jonathan signed it into law, raising the wage from the previous N7, 500. New Minimum Wage Bill Transmitted To NASS – Presidency Meanwhile, the presidency has disclosed that it has sent the executive bill to the National Assembly for the new minimum wage of N27,000 for state government workers and the private sector as well as N30,000 for the federal workers. The senior special assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, Senator Ita Enang, who confirmed the transmission of the bill to the National Assembly yesterday, said that the bill had been forwarded to the parliament. Enang told journalists in Abuja that, “Well, Mr. President has transmitted the communication in respect of the minimum wage. The bill has been transmitted to the National Assembly and it is inappropriate to speak on it until it is read.” But, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senator representing Kwara South,  Rafiu Ibrahim, told journalists in Abuja that as at the close of business  yesterday nothing of such was received. Senator Ibrahim, an associate of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, however, said the bill would be considered with dispatch once it is submitted to the legislature. This was just as Senator Ali Ndume (Borno APC) yesterday said that the workers deserve a living wage and not minimum wage. CNPP Asks Labour To Accept N27,000 Also yesterday, the Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) in Edo State has appealed to NLC to accept the N27, 000 new minimum wage endorsed by the National Council of State. CNPP chairman, Mr. Roy Oribhabor, made the appeal yesterday in Benin. He urged the NLC to accept the new minimum wage as matter of love and patriotism, in spite of the economic hardship being experienced in the country. Oribhabor emphasised that the appeal became necessary after a critical evaluation of the N27, 000 minimum wage in Nigeria as approved by the NCS. “In as much as we know things are hard, we solicit for understanding because of the reality on ground today from some states. “We commend the leaders of the NLC for the foresight and determination to provide acceptable wages for Nigerian workers,” Oribhabor said in a statement.