Following weeks of controversy that engulfed the head of the the third arm of government, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday moved to restore order in the judiciary. To this end, the president suspended the chief justice of Nigeria (CJN)  Walter Onnonghen and swore in Justice Tanko Ibrahim Mohammed as the acting CJN in his place. The swearing-in ceremony took place at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Justice Walter Onnoghen has been facing trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) for asset declaration violation, a trial that has generated a lot of controversy and  polarised the polity. Explaining his decision to remove the CJN during the swearing–in of the acting CJN, President Buhari said that his action was in obedience to an order by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) currently trying the CJN for alleged non-declaration of assets. The CCT order, he said, was dated January 23  2019. He said,” A short while ago, I was served with an order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal issued on Wednesday 23rd January, 2019, directing the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honourable Justice Walter Nkanu Samuel Onnoghen from office pending final determination of the cases against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal and several other fora relating to his alleged breach of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers. “In line with this administration’s avowed respect for the Rule of Law, I have wholeheartedly obeyed the Order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal dated 23rd January 2019 “Accordingly, I hereby suspend the Honourable Mr. Justice Walter Nkanu Samuel Onnoghen, GCON, as the Chief Justice of Nigeria pending final determination of the case against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. “In further compliance with the same order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, I hereby invite Honourable Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, JSC, being the next most senior justice in the Supreme Court, to come forward to take the judicial oath as Chief Justice of Nigeria in an acting capacity.” The president gave further insight into why he suspended CJN Onnoghen, alleging that the judiciary boss may have been involved in other fraudulent actions. “The nation has been gripped by the tragic realities of no less a personality than the Chief Justice of Nigeria himself becoming the accused person in a corruption trial since details of the petition against him by a Civil Society Organization first became public about a fortnight ago. “Although the allegations in the petition are grievous enough in themselves, the security agencies have since then traced other suspicious transactions running into millions of dollars to the CJN’s personal accounts, all  undeclared or improperly declared as required by law.” President Buhari further pointed to the CJN’s own written admission to the charges – that he indeed failed to follow the spirit and letter of the law in declaring his assets, citing ’’mistake’’ and ’’forgetfulness,’’ which, the president – are totally unknown to our laws as defences in the circumstances of his case. The president, however, remarked that one expected that with his moral authority so wounded by these serious charges of corruption, more so by his own written admission, Onnoghen would have acted swiftly to spare the judicial arm further disrepute by removing himself from superintending over it while his trial lasted, but he failed to do so. “Instead,” Buhari went on, “the nation has been treated to the sordid spectacle of a judicial game of wits in which the Chief Justice of Nigeria and his legal team have made nonsense of the efforts of the Code of Conduct Tribunal to hear the allegation on merit and conclude the trial as quickly as possible considering the nature of the times in which we live.” Buhari asserted that the influence of the CJN is definitely tell on the head of one of the organs of justice under his control. According to him,  there is simply no way the officers of that court, from the chairman to the bailiffs, can pretend to be unaffected by the influence of the leader of the Judiciary. He further explained that not only the trial court, but others have been put on the spot, noting that  practically every other day since his trial commenced, the nation has witnessed various courts granting orders and counter-orders concerning the CJN, all of them characterised by an unholy alacrity between the time of filing, hearing and delivery of judgment in same. “ The real effect has been a stalling of the trial of Justice Onnoghen, helped along by lawyers who insist that these orders, whether right or wrong, are technically valid, and must be obeyed till an appellate court says otherwise. No doubt, that it is the proper interpretation, but is it the right disposition for our nation? Nigeria is a constitutional democracy and no one must be, or be seen to be, above the law. Unfortunately, the drama around the trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria has challenged that pillar of justice in the perception of the ordinary man on the street. For it is certain that no ordinary Nigerian can get the swift and special treatment Justice Onnoghen has enjoyed from his subordinates and privies in our Judicature. “In the midst of all these distracting events, the essential question of whether the accused CJN actually has a case to answer has been lost in the squabble over the form and nature of his trial. This should not be so. “ If Justice cannot be done and clearly seen to be done, society itself is at risk of the most unimaginable chaos. As a government, we cannot stand by wailing and wringing our hands helplessly but give our full backing and support to those brave elements within the Judiciary who act forthrightly, irrespective of who is involved,” Buhari stated. The president reiterated that the fight against corruption was one of the tripod of policies promised to Nigerians by this administration. The fight against corruption, he noted ,is an existential policy which must be given adequate attention and commitment by all the three arms of government, pointing out that  the efforts of the executive will amount to nothing without the cooperation of the legislature and, especially, the judiciary. Buhari continued: “It is no secret that this government is dissatisfied with the alarming rate in which the Supreme Court of Nigeria under the oversight of Justice Walter Onnoghen has serially set free persons accused of the most dire acts of corruption, often on mere technicalities, and after quite a number of them have been convicted by the trial and appellate courts. “Since there is nothing the executive arm can do after the apex court of the land has spoken on any matter, several of these individuals walk free among us today, enjoying what are clearly the proceeds of the corruption which for so long has defeated the efforts of this nation to develop and prosper. “It is against this background that I have received the order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal directing me to suspend the Chief Justice pending final determination of the cases against him. It also explains why I am not only complying immediately, but with some degree of relief for the battered sensibilities of ordinary Nigerians whose patience must have become severely over-taxed by these anomalies.” He urged all Nigerians to join in the fight against corruption in order to  position the nation for accelerated development.  …Onnoghen’s suspension an act of dictatorship – Atiku Meanwhile,  the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has described the suspension of the CJN by President Muhammadu Buhari as an anti-democratic act. Atiku, in a statement he signed yesterday, said he rejected the action in its entirely and called on Justice Onnoghen and the judiciary to resist  it with every legal and constitutional means that they could muster. He said, “This brazen dictatorial act is the latest action in the ongoing rape of our nation’s hard earned democracy by those who dined with anti-democratic forces, and is symptomatic of the increasing desperation that President Buhari and the cabal pulling the strings have as February 16, 2019 draws near. “The fact that the unlawful suspension of Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen was announced just as it became public knowledge that the CJN was constituting the election petition tribunals is not lost on discerning Nigerians and the international community. “This act of desperation is geared towards affecting the outcome of the 2019 presidential elections. Indeed, it is not just the CJN that has been “suspended”, it is the Nigerian Constitution that has been infracted and, in effect, suspended under the guise of the suspension of the CJN. “The case involving the legality or otherwise of the charges against Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen is in court, as it should be. So far, the judiciary has ruled in Justice Onnoghen’s favour. So, why not allow the court to adjudicate on the matter? What is the pressing urgency? He also urged the international community to follow the commendable example of the United States and the United Kingdom by intervening to make those involved in this undemocratic act know that their actions would have consequences. “And to the Nigerian electorate, I call on you to save your beloved country from dictatorship by voting against President Muhammadu Buhari’s desperate war against the judiciary. Our country is falling apart under the leadership of President Buhari and it is time to stand up for democracy,” he said.  PDP rejects duplication of CJN by PMB On its part, the opposition  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected what it described as attempts by President Muhammadu Buhari “to foist an illegal Chief Justice on the nation while the substantive Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen,  is still in office.” The PDP, in a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it firmly holds that such impunity cannot stand as Nigeria is a nation governed by law and not by the whims and caprices of a dictatorial leader. He said: “President Buhari wants to ruin our country and we will never allow him. ”Nigerians must reject the incendiary move by President Buhari to forcefully suspend our constitution, annex the judicial arm of government and open the nation up for full-blown totalitarianism to achieve his self-succession bid, having realized that he cannot win in the 2019 general election. “President Buhari’s action in attempting to unilaterally appoint a Chief Justice and foist him on our country is a direct invitation to anarchy, national confusion and a monumental crisis capable of derailing our democracy and destroying our corporate existence as a nation. “It is now clear to the world that President Buhari, in his selfish self-succession bid, is out to cause mayhem in our nation and truncate the smooth conduct of the 2019 election, not minding the consequential human and material losses. “’There can be no two Chief Justices of Nigeria. Our constitution is clear on how a Chief Justice is appointed and removed as such does not lie on the prerogative of the President. As such, we urge all Nigerians and the international community to recognize only Justice Walter Onnoghen as the Chief Justice of Nigeria.” The PDP called upon the international community and particularly the United States and the United Kingdom to note that the assault on the judiciary which, it said, was geared towards subverting the 2019 general elections. “The world already knows how the Buhari administration is trying to compromise the electoral process, including the refusal to sign the amendment to the Electoral Act, as well as the foisting of Mr. President’s relation by marriage, Mrs. Amina Zakari, to coordinate the collation of Presidential election results,” the party added. The PDP  further reminded President Buhari that this nation belongs to all Nigerians and is a democratic state governed by the constitution and the law, adding that Nigerians would never allow anybody to appropriate rulership to himself outside the dictates of the law. Similarly, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) said it had been vindicated on its earlier warning that Buhari wanted to appoint  a pro-APC CJN to help use the judiciary to affirm APC candidates in the 2019 pre- and post-election litigations. The body of political parties described the president’s action as a judicial coup that must be resisted by all lovers of democracy. Addressing a press conference in Abuja yesterday, the spokesman of CUPP, Ikenga Ugochinyere, said Buhari had finally overthrown constitutional governance, adding that factionalisation of the judiciary would not stand. “As far as the law of the land is concerned, Onnoghen remains the CJN. We will not recognise any other person who may be occupying that office illegally. Justice Tanko Mohammed is an usurper. The NJC must sack him. Lawyers must ignore him as long as he remains on that seat. “The CJN can be removed from office either if he has been convicted or if under section 291 and 292 of the constitution, the Senate affirms a request by the President to remove him by two-thirds majority vote. Buhari has dared  Nigerians. “Onnoghen’s illegal removal was aimed at stopping the swearing-in of members of the 2019 general election petition tribunal,” he said, He called on the Senate to reconvene immediately and start impeachment process against the President for acting against the provision of the Constitution he swore to uphold. “Buhari has shown with this development that he is the most cruel and barbaric President Nigeria ever had. A man who rode to power on the basis of respect for the rule law and fundamental principles of democracy has chosen to play to the gallery of dictatorship “But we know that this is going to be the beginning of democracy in Nigeria. The democratic institutions will fight back. Trust me it is the beginning of democracy in Nigeria. Out of adversity comes strength,” he said.  Onnoghen’s suspension, a coup against judiciary – NBA For its part, the Nigerian  Bar Association has  also condemned the suspension of the CJN Onnoghen, describing the president’s action as a coup against the nation’s judiciary. The NBA president, Paul Usoro, SAN, who made the position of the association known in a statement, stated that the body rejected the president’s action in its entirety, adding that it amounted to suspending the nation’s constitution. While reacting to the suspension,  the NBA urged the executive to avert what it described as a looming constitutional crisis precipitated by its ill-advised action by reversing Onnoghen’s suspension. “The Nigerian Bar Association unequivocally rejects and condemns this attempted coup against the Nigerian Judiciary and evident suspension of the Nigerian Constitution by the Executive arm of the federal government. The action of the executive portends a slide into anarchy and complete deconstruction of the rule of law and due process. It amounts to an absolute breach of the Constitution and the usurpation of the powers of the Senate and the Nigerian Judicial Council. “It is unfortunate that the Executive Branch of Government purports to suspend the CJN on the basis of an alleged ex-parte order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal – the same tribunal that, to the knowledge of the executive, had, only the previous day, Tuesday, 22 January 2019 adjourned its proceedings to Monday, 28 January 2019 and has before it a motion on notice that is yet to be argued seeking the same reliefs as were contained in the purported ex-parte application, to wit, the suspension of the CJN, amongst others.” The lawyers’ union further called on the National Assembly to assert its constitutional authority and powers and prevent what, it said, was a slide into chaos and erosion of the rule of law.  Onnoghen: President Buhari has suspended the constitution – Ozekhome Constitutional lawyer and human rights activist, Mike Ozekhome (SAN) has described suspension of the CJN, Walter Onnoghen, from office as an affront to the constitution. Ozekhome, in his reaction, observed that President Muhammadu Buhari chose to suspend the constitution by taking the most unconstitutional decision in the history of Nigeria. According to him, the alleged suspension from office of the CJN is the vilest, thieving, most despicable, undemocratic and brazenly unconstitutional act ever carried out by any government in Nigeria, civilian or military. He alleged that the current administration had put away every pretense of democratic disposition and has tilted towards dictatorship. “The desperate act of a sit-tight president constitutes a direct suspension of the Nigerian Constitution and the entire democratic process. It has finally removed the remaining veneer of pretension to democratic credentials, l, welcome, Nigerians, to full blown dictatorship, absolutism, authoritarianism and fascism. Buhari has behaved worse than what he was as a military tyrant. Military juntas always only suspended parts of the Constitution they did not like”, he said. Ozekhome, however, urged Nigerians to come out enmasse to protest against this illegality. “We are back to full Abacha era as former President Obasanjo rightly noted three days ago in his patriotic letter to Nigerians. Nigerian lawyers and the NBA should shut down all courts in Nigeria until the CJN is returned to his seat,”  he said. Another senior lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN), while reacting to Onnoghen’s suspension, said Nigerians should not be in a hurry to condemn President Buhari’s action. Raji explained that since the President claimed to have acted on an order of the CCT, attention should rather be shifted to where the order emanated. “It is an unfolding drama; we should wait for full information on it. The President has said he acted on an order, so let us wait to know where and when the order was made. Whether it is an ex parte or motion on notice, it doesn’t matter. If the President has acted on an order which he merely complied with, then who should we blame, is it the President who acted on the order or the person who made the order. That is my take,” Raji said.