Governor Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe State, has called on the members of communities affected by recent Boko Haram attacks not to leave their ancestral homes, assuring them of protection and safety. In a statement signed by his director of Press, Abdullahi Bego, which was made available to journalists, he said security agencies are working very hard to keep those communities and the entire state safe from Boko Haram attacks. According to the statement, Governor Ibrahim Gaidam is particularly worried that people of Kukareta, Buni-Gari and Katarko are leaving their communities for fear of being attacked by the insurgents, despite the fact that he also shares their concerns. He said that, following recent incidents involving Boko Haram terrorists in Kuka Reta, Katarko and Buni-Gari towns of the state,  Yobe State government wishes to draw the attention of the public in the affected areas and all across the state to the heightened and continued effort of the military and other security agencies to ensure peace, security and safety of people across the state. He said the call becomes necessary following reports that some people in the affected areas were leaving their communities for other areas due to security concerns. “While those concerns are understandable, the Yobe State government urges that people should not panic or leave their communities. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that, in a crucial meeting with heads of security and law enforcement, Gov Ibrahim Gaidam had been briefed about the range of efforts that are underway by the military and all the security agencies on ground to approach and contain any threats to security in the state. He, therefore, assured that the public could remain confident that those measures are intense and comprehensive and that everything necessary is being done to ensure public safety. The statement added, “Governor Ibrahim Gaidam wishes to extend his deepest appreciation and that of the Yobe State government to the people for their continuous cooperation with the military and other security agencies which has resulted in huge security gains at various times. “Gaidam urges the people to sustain and build on this level of cooperation and continue to report to law enforcement agencies if and when they notice anything suspicious in their communities,” he said.