The two leading presidential candidates in next month’s general elections, President Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress  (APC) and Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have given reasons for not joining their rivals in a presidential debate organised by the Nigeria Election Debate Group and the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria (BON) yesterday in Abuja. LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt that while President Buhari did not show up for the debate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar flew in from the US for the debate and got to the venue only to learn, to his disappointment, that the president would not be attending. However, giving reasons for the president’s absence, the director, Strategic Communications of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Festus Keyamo (SAN) said the busy and hectic official and campaign schedules of President Buhari clashed with the presidential debate which made it impossible for him to attend the programme. Keyamo, in a statement, explained that the president commissioned the Baro Inland Water Port in Niger State and campaigned in Niger and Plateau States where his time was over-stretched by the tumultuous and mammoth crowds in both states,  and only returned to Abuja in this evening. The statement reads, “President Muhammadu Buhari could not attend the presidential debate  organised by the Nigeria Election Debate Group and the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria which held Saturday, January 19, 2019 for the following reasons: “Firstly, out of several opportunities afforded our candidate to interact with the Nigerian people directly by different organisations, our presidential candidate has taken full advantage of another town-hall meeting organised by another group, which held on Wednesday, January 16, 2019. “He was also joined at that town-hall meeting by our vice presidential candidate who is also the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN. Nigerians from all walks of life who were physically present and through on-line platforms asked uncensored questions which were adequately answered. It was also transmitted live by various broadcast networks in Nigeria. “Whilst we thank the organisers for the invitation, we want to assure Nigerians that we shall continue to hold these debate groups and Nigerians in high esteem, which our candidate has demonstrated during past election debates when he honoured similar invitations. Nigerians will also recall that a few weeks ago, our vice-presidential candidate, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, also attended the debate organised by the same organisations.”  I’m Ready To Debate With President -Atiku Meanwhile, the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, refused to participate in the presidential debate in protest of President Muhammadu Buhari’s absence. The PDP candidate explained that he cut short his trip to the United States to debate with President Buhari who was expected to defend his tenure in office for the past three and half years. Atiku, who spoke with newsmen at the venue of the debate at the Transcorp Abuja, added that he did not believe in attacking Buhari who would not be available at the debate to defend himself. He, however, insisted that he was ready for a rescheduled debate with the president. The PDP flagbearer said, “I am walking out because I expected to come and debate with Mr. President. The president has been in office for the past three and half years. “He is not here to defend that record, so who am I going to debate with. If he is on his way, when he comes, I will come back. “In any case, I will have an opportunity to address Nigerians because there are other interviews in the plan. I came back from the US to participate in this debate but the president is not here.” In a statement he later sent to news men, Atiku challenged President Buhari to choose a date and time for a rescheduled debate. In the statement the PDP presidential  candidate said, “We came here for a presidential debate, not a candidacy debate, and I, Atiku Abubakar, cannot challenge or question an administration where the man at the helm of the affairs of the nation is not present to defend himself or his policies. After all, you cannot shave a man’s head in his absence. I do not believe in attacking a man who is not here to defend himself. “As a leader and former vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, let me first apologise to all Nigerians, my fellow candidates and the moderator for the APC Presidential Candidate’s absence in this debate. His non-appearance is a slight on all of us and our democracy. “Secondly, with all due respect to my fellow candidates, Fela Durotoye, Oby Ezekwesili,  Kingsley Moghalu and to the moderator, Mark Sugar and with apologies to all Nigerians here and at home expecting an interesting debate, I regret that I will not be able to go on with this debate due to President Buhari’s absence. “I however challenge President Buhari to choose a date and time for a debate where he will be present and I will be there, hopefully with the other candidates as well.” The Senate president and director-general of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, who accompanied Atiku to the Transport Hilton Hotel, venue of the debate, also said: “We have always made it clear to the organisers that our candidate is ready to debate with the president. “When we were told in Washington DC that the debate will take place, we thought the president will be here. Our candidate is ready to debate with the president anytime he is ready.”  PDP Tackles Buhari For Shying Away From Debate Atiku’s party, the PDP, yesterday corroborated the position of its candidate that the party’s presidential candidate was ready to debate with Buhari, even as he lambasted the president for shying away from the debate. The party, in a statement signed by its director, Media and Publicity, PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that Atiku was at the venue of the presidential debate only to discover that President Buhari, for whom he cut short his trip to the United States of America to meet in a debate, had refused to show up. Ologbondiyan said, “Atiku insists on debating directly with President Buhari and is still ready to meet him anywhere and any time for the debate.” The PDP statement quoted Atiku as saying, “I cut short my trip to the United States and returned to Nigeria because I know that majority of Nigerians want to listen to me at the debate. “However, I have come to the venue of the debate. I have waited until the beginning of the debate and I cannot find the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari, for whom I have returned from my trip to debate. “I insist that I will debate President Buhari any day, any time and anywhere, including the Aso Rock Villa.” The party, however, described it “as sad that an elected president and a Commander-in-Chief is shying away from a debate at the time Nigerians expect him to give account of his stewardship in office.”  Ezekwesili, Durotoye, Moghalu unfold Promises Meanwhile, candidates of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Oby Ezekwesili; Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), Fela Durotoye and Young Progressives Party (YPP), Kingsley Moghalu yesterday unfolded attractive policies, with each of them asking Nigerians to vote for them ahead of the February 16 presidential election. The presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, refused to participate in the debate despite being at the venue, saying he won’t be part of the debate if President Buhari won’t participate. Ezekwesili of ACPN said Nigeria needs to be rescued from people she described as rulers, adding that politics in Nigeria needs to be redefined. She said her government will eradicate poverty if elected, even as she regretted that Nigerians are poor because they earn below N700 a day. She said she will enhance productivity of Nigerians for them to earn more to reduce poverty. “The structure of the economy led to low productivity,” Ezekwesili said, promising that her government, if elected, will give priority to the economy and improve investment. While promising to reduce cost of governance, Ezekwesili said bureaucracy is behind the increasing cost of governance. “Competent people will be appointed in position of leadership,” she said, noting that the private sector will drive the economy. “Nigeria needs to be freed from poor governance. We want to be the drivers of the future Nigeria. Nigeria is suffering from lack of skills relevant to the economy. You must grow the economy beyond 1.6 per cent. 75 per cent of Nigerians must have opportunity for jobs,” she added. On education, the former minister said the sector will be key, adding that teachers will be trained and ensure that teaching becomes a lucrative profession. But Fela Durotoye of Alliance For New Nigeria (ANN) said even though Nigeria is one of the blessed nation on earth, it is being ruled and not governed. Durotoye said his method of improving the economy will be focused on agriculture, housing and road construction. “Land use for agriculture will be increased by 60 per cent to engage millions of people. The power sector will be fixed to provide 30 million jobs. The power sector will drive commodity force in Agriculture,” Durotoye said, adding that Nigerians will be willing to pay higher taxes if waste and corruption are blocked. While pledging to reduce cost of governance, starting from the presidency, Durotoye said it was unacceptable taht over 30 cars would move to the airport to pick a president. While attacking the PDP and the APC candidates for not attending the debate, Durotoye said, “If you did not deem it fit to tell the people what you want to do, you are preparing yourself to be a ruler. It is time for Nigerians to determine what matters. Nigerians now have a clear choice to make and the time is now,” he said. On his plans for security, Durotoye said recruitment into military and paramilitary agencies will not be on the basis of nepotism. The candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), Kingsley Moghalu, said he will win the election with the support and the votes of Nigerians because it is time for leadership change. “We will restructure the country, established national security, work with women, youth, break backbone of poverty, improve education, establish skills training centres with easy access to finance,” Moghalu said. On why the economy is not working well, the YPP presidential candidate said Nigerians can’t fix the economy without fixing the politics. “Fixing the economy depends on who becomes the president. Nigeria don’t have an economic philosophy,” Moghalu said, while pledging to fix the educational system which he said will empower the youths to revamp the economy. He said he will devote trillions on a yearly basis for job creation and will recruit and train 1.5 million new policemen in a period of four years, adding that his government will not sack civil servants but move them into productive sectors. “Moghalu who also taunted the APC and the PDP candidates for not attending the debate added that the duo have turned their backs against Nigerians. On security, Moghalu said there will be political will from his government to tackle insecurity, just as he said he will tackle corruption in the military to boost the morale of the soldiers. “Every Nigerian will feel he is a Nigerian. Our government will carry everyone along. Why should 95 per cent of heads of security of a country come from one section and from one religion? We will have an inclusive government. Everyone zone will be represented,” Moghalu said, while responding to questions on how he will tackle the Biafra issue. On education, the former CBN deputy governor said not less than 20 per cent of the budget will be voted to education. 