Elder statesman and the Esogban of Benin Kingdom, Chief David Edibiri, yesterday stated that the suspension of the embattled Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Walter Onnoghen is a big boost to President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti- corruption fight and save the judiciary from ridicule. Recall that Buhari had last Friday suspended Onnoghen following an interim order by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) in favour of the Federal Government. Reacting to the development, Chief Edibiri commended the President for taking the bold step and appointing Acting Chief Justice adding that the decision will go down well with Nigeria masses. “The arraignment of the Chief Justice before the code of Conduct Tribunal is a major breakthrough in the fight against corruption in the Country. No Nigeria in his wildest imagination, would believe that General Nehemiah was a leper! “Those who now threaten to pull the heavens down, because of Justice Onnoghen’s arraignment are not good students of history. Were we not on this Country in 1964 when immortal Obafemi Awolowo was arraigned on phantom coup plot charges and was sentenced to ten years in imprisonment by a Yoruba Judge” “Awolowo and his party, the Action Group, did not pull down the roof. He served the sentence until God’s judgement came through General Yakubu Gowon , who released him and his other party chieftains unconditionally ,from prison in July 1966”. “Are these people crying not aware that Zik of Africa and the doyen of Nigerian politics and nationalism, was in February 1953 charged before the Sir Foster Sutton Tribunal for alleged wrong doing regarding the finances of African Continent Bank founded by him” “With all the power and support of a solid ethnic group did not threaten to pull down the roof of the house. He submitted to the trial which found him guilty. Zik responded by resigning as the leader of government business in the Eastern region”. “Those who had hinged their hopes on becoming the President of Nigeria through the TKO, ( Technical Knockout) will not go back to the drawing table to strategize on how to win the people vote through lawful and constitutional means”.