The Nigerian Army said yesterday that it encountered and killed six Boko Haram members in the terrorists’ hideouts around Gawa and Boskoro villages in Mafa local government area of Borno State The troops of 112 Task Force Battalion, 22 Brigade, Operation Lafiya Dole, along with some members of the Civilian JTF were said to be on a fighting patrol on January 3, 2019 when they neutralised the insurgents. The director, Army Public Relations, Brig Gen Sani Usman, said the fighting patrol was embarked on based on credible intelligence and in the process, the troops discovered and destroyed Boko Haram terrorists’ hideout and recovered weapons. He noted that before the destruction of the hideout, the troops recovered three pieces of 36 hand grenade, four dane guns, and 26 rounds of anti-aircraft ammunition. He added that the troops also recovered three gas cylinders and a set of Bow and Arrows. He added that the patrol team also rescued three women at Boskoro who were later handed over to the Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDPs’) camp officials at Dikwa. The army spokesman added that, impressed by their performance, the theatre commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General BA Akinroluyo commended the troops. He said the commendation was relayed to the gallant troops by the acting General Officer Commanding 7 Division and Commander Sector 1, Operation Lafiya Dole, Brigadier General Bulama Biu. He further enjoined them to be more daring and clear any suspected Boko Haram terrorists hideout. This is coming just as the Nigerian military have also deployed Special Forces from the Nigerian Army Special Forces School, Buni Yadi, to Operation Lafiya Dole theatre. A statement by the Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General Benson A. Akinroluyo, noted that the troops will be deployed to designated towns, including Bama, Gubio, Dikwa, Damboa and Maiduguri. Akinroluyo told the Special Forces: “I believe you have fully imbibed the requisite training aimed at building your confidence, and are now better equipped to carry out the task of stabilizing liberated towns and communities to which you will be deployed. “The Nigeria Police Force Coordinator and the Component Commander have intimated me of your exemplary conduct and high morale, demonstrated since your arrival in this camp. “I must add, however, that the Force Headquarters and indeed Headquarters Operation LAFIYA DOLE expect nothing less than professionalism from each and every one of you, as you go about your duties. “I must reiterate at this juncture, that I have zero tolerance for any form of Human Rights violation and indiscipline. Therefore, you must ensure without unduly compromising, that you endear yourselves to your host communities and towns, in tandem with the popular slogan, Police is your friend”. NAF Bandits In Zamfara Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has said its Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Diran Mikiya has destroyed another armed bandits’ hideout and neutralised several of their fighters near Doumbourou Hill in Zamfara State. NAF’s director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, who announced this in Abuja, noted that the operation was carried out on Wednesday. He said, “The attack was executed yesterday,Jan. 2 , following human intelligence (HUMINT) reports, which were later confirmed by Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), missions, indicating that a large number of bandits, armed with high calibre weapons, regularly assemble at a compound around the foot of the hill before going out on operations. “Accordingly, the ATF scrambled two Nigerian Air Force (NAF) attack helicopters, supported by an ISR platform, to engage the bandits and destroy their compound. The helicopters strafed the target area in successive waves of attack, with the first wave causing some damage to the structures and neutralising some of their fighters. “The second wave was sequenced to engage the armed bandits as they re-emerged out of their hiding places, thus inflicting further fatalities on them”. Daramola said that credible sources later revealed that the leader of the group was among those killed during the attack. He said the ATF would continue to work in close coordination with surface forces and other security agencies to conduct reconnaissance and air interdiction missions with a view to restoring normalcy to the affected states in the North West.