The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared that it would not transmit the results of the 2019 general elections electronically. INEC said that it was not adopting the electronic option because there was no law in the country backing it. Consequently, all the results would be transmitted manually as provided in the operating Electoral Act. At the quarterly consultative meeting with the media in Abuja yesterday, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, ruled out the creation of additional polling units for the polls, which begins on February 16, 2019 with the presidential contest. Yakubu said that that no polling unit had been created since he came into office. He said: “The commission is also aware of the interest expressed by the media to learn more about the commission’s electronic results transmission process, including its backend process. “In the absence of any legal backing for electronic transmission of the results, we can only do a nationwide pilot in 2019,” Yakubu said. According to him, the pilot exercise the commission carried out in some of the off-season elections since 2015 would continue. INEC national commissioner and chairman, electoral operations, Prof Okechukwu Ibeanu, who commented on the issue, said: “Since the amendment of the Electoral Act was not assented to, the transmission of the results will be done according to the present Electoral Act which prescribed manual process.” To avoid the hijack of the results, INEC said that it had developed a homegrown technology, which it described as dependable, for use in the 2019 general elections. INEC continued: “Russians, North Koreans tried to hack us in 2015 but they couldn’t. We have asked others to try that in Nigeria and they could not get us.” The commission explained that there were two manual applications on the Card Reader that function as a means for accreditation, collation and transmission of the results, adding that once the voter finished the process of voting, the server captures it. “The results will be in figures and in image at the backend. The system has been able to put a check on malpractices,” INEC said. On the contested issue of new polling units, Yakubu said that there was no change in the number of polling units, voting units and points used for the 2015 general elections and the 2016 area council elections in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Yakubu said that “any insinuation that new polling units, voting points or voting settlements are being created by the commission is baseless and should be disregarded. “The register of voters has been finalised, including the detailed breakdown of the distribution of voters by states, local governments, wards and polling units.” “No new units have been created and none will be created for the 2019 general elections,” Yakubu insisted. The INEC boss appealed to the media to support the commission by reporting any malpractices, adding that the commission was aware that some political actors were attempting to lure INEC staff into handing over the collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to them. He said that that the request would not be granted because the commission won’t allow collection of PVCs by proxy. Yakubu, however, raised the alarm over attempts by some political actors working hard to subvert the process and urged the media to support the commission to frustrate such actions. He said INEC would commence a weekly media briefing to update Nigerians on the preparations for the elections and other new developments. At the event, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) warned that it would not tolerate any clampdown or assault on its members during elections. NUJ president, Comrade Chris Isiguzo, said that the union was worried about the way and manner journalists and media houses were always treated during elections, adding that such acts should not be allowed to happen in 2019. He promised that the media would support INEC to conduct peaceful and credible elections this year.