The Arewa community in Lagos State has rejected the endorsement of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by some traditional rulers and traders. In a statement signed by the secretary of the group, Alhaji Musa Sale, after a meeting held at Arewa House, No 1 Abdullahi Daura Close, Agege, the Arewa community in Lagos also urged the public to ignore what it described as fake award given to Agbaje by purported members of their community. The group also read a riot act against erring Arewa traditional rulers and marketers who engage in what it called denigration of the sanctity of the traditional institution. While making reference to a statement issued by the chairman, Agege Local Government, Hon Ganiyu Egunjobi, over the visit of Mr Jimi Agbaje to the Sarkin Hausawa of Agege and his purported endorsement, the Arewa Community said it has not approved the endorsement of the Lagos State Governorship candidate of the PDP and that whoever does that is not speaking on behalf of the Arewa people. “Rather, the person speaks for himself,” the statement said adding, “when you invite candidates of different parties to pay homage purposely to make financial benefits, you are obviously bringing the sanctity of the traditional institution into disrepute.” “Also, when you invite people with the aim of giving them awards so as to make benefits from it, you are also bringing the institution into disrepute. What award do you have that you want to bring the traditional institution into disrepute? It is not from the Arewa community,” the statement said. The group urged their members to desist from using the name of Arewa community for what it described as shameful acts, promising to bring to bear appropriate actions against such people forthwith. “The Arewa community is a body registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission and therefore cannot be toyed with,” the statement said advising members of the public, especially politicians to be vigilant to avoid falling prey. “The resolutions of the Arewa Parliament were presented to the leader of the Arewa Community, Arch Ahmed Kabiru Abdullahi, who in turn granted approval for its implementation. Mr Abdullahi, however, called on the Lagos State Council of Arewa Chiefs to take appropriate disciplinary actions against such erring Arewa traditional rulers.” “We have not endorsed Jimi Agbaje. Rather, we endorsed Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu for the Governorship of Lagos State because of his track record of performance, credibility and ample experience,” the statement added.