The All Progressive Congress (APC) as it is today is only but a safe haven for those with skeleton in their cupboards, Sokoto state govenror. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has said. Tambuwal who made the assumption while addressing mammoth crowd of party loyalists at Wurno local government yesterday cautioned Nigerians against listening to further lies from the APC. According to him, Nigerians have seen how retrogressive the nation has become within the last four years of APC’s government. The eleted governor however appealed to all and sundry to vote PDP in the forthcoming general elections if they want to do away with pains, agony, insecurity and misgovernance of the moment. Said Tambuwal, “We are particularly grateful to the people of this senatorial district for their sacrifices. The mammoth crowd is simply but a confirmation that we have won the elections already. “My plea for all of you is to go all out and bring our members back to the line of progress. “If we allow the government at the federal level to continue for the next 4 years, our lives then is in serious danger. “PMB is not in charge of governance in Nigeria.  Some few miscreants who knows nothing about good governance are behind the wheels”. The governor further carpeted the APC as an association of deceptive persons, hence the need not to believe any single bit of their lies. “You have seen all the lies.  Everything continues to go high despite the promise of making live better for the ordinary citizen. “Farmers can no longer go to farm because of insecurity. Nigerians should be wiser now and stop blind followership. PMB has told Nigerians lies and will continue to tell lies because he has nothing to offer. “PMB’s government is characterized with injustice. No politician in their midst is seen as corrupt. “Some are still in their fold because it is a safe haven for people with questionable character” Shortly after receiving 6725 members of the APC who defected to the PDP, former governor of the state, Dalhatu Bafarawa said he is supporting Tambuwal because of his leadership prowess. “I can assure all of you today that you will continue to witness good governance only with the PDP. “As far as the forthcoming general election is concern,  PDP has won but in the state and federal level” said Bafarawa.