The federal government has said the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, allegedly benefited from the slush funds that led to the collapse of Bank PHB, now Keystone Bank. This is coming barely a month after Abubakar had alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari and members of his family own substantial shares in telecoms firm, 9mobile, and Keystone Bank. The minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, while briefing State House correspondents yesterday in Abuja, accused Abubakar of N156 million fraud, saying he will offer explanations to Nigerians once he returns from his trip to the United States. Abubakar had on Thursday travelled to the United State, the first since he left office as vice president 12 years ago. Specifically, Mohammed said Abubakar benefited from N156 million slush funds through what he called Claremont Management Services Account on January 13, 2009. According to him, there is fresh evidence as to Abubakar’s involvement in the collapse of Bank PHB, which he owes the electorate and Nigerians explanation Recalling that he had advised the United States government against issuing visa to Abubakar, the minister noted however that the federal government is not bothered by Atiku’s visit to that country. Challenging Abubakar to explain his involvement in the alleged slush funds that led to the collapse of Bank PHB, Mohammed said the PDP presidential candidate must return to the country and explain his roles in the bankruptcy of Bank PHB, now Key Stone Bank. Noting that it remains the prerogative of the US government to issue visa to anyone it deems fit, Mohammed said, “Let me say right away, we are not perturbed one bit that Alhaji Atiku Abukakar was able to secure visa to the US. As a matter of fact, he can go ahead and get the US Green Card. That will not save him from imminent defeat in the forthcoming election. “I want to remind Abubakar that the elections will be right here in Nigeria and not in the US. In any event, any time Abubakar returns home, he has questions to answer following the fresh evidence that we have that he benefitted from slush funds that led to the collapse of the former Bank PHB. The document we have shows that he benefitted to the tune of N156 million from that slush funds.” The minister said that the paper which is in his possession started from an internal memo on January 13, 2009, which reads: ‘please refer for discussion your requested overdraft in favour of Atiku Abubakar for N156 million and deliver same to me. Please note that it must be delivered today (Jan. 13)’. On the same date, another memo was generated to confirm: ‘please confirm that the amount stated below be issued from Claremont Management Services account.” Mohammed said there was clear evidence of the account mandated in the name of Atiku Abubakar. “We also have a copy of the cheque in which the sum of N156 million was issued to Atiku Abubakar dated January 13, 2009 and of course we also have statement of account within that period that confirms that this sum was actually paid into his account,’’ he said. Allegations Laughable – PDP In a swift reaction, the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) yesterday described as laughable but heinous what it described as federal government’s plot to frame the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, over issues leading to the collapse of Bank PHB. The party argued that, while the plot is a frenzied face-saving effort to divert public attention from President Muhammadu Buhari’s humiliating appearances in the respective rallies and television shows, it also reflects the fear that Atiku is already coasting to victory in the February 16 presidential election. The director of media and publicity of PPCO, Kola Ologbondiyan, who stated the party’s position at a press conference, maintained that Atiku has nothing to do with the alleged issues leading to the collapse of Bank PHB. The PPCO director said, while the PDP understands that President Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are jittery over Abubakar’s soaring popularity ahead of the elections, it is reprehensible that the president “will descend abysmally low to fabricate outright lies and falsehood in a bid to discredit a more qualified and acceptable presidential candidate.” Ologbondiyan claimed that Atiku is an honest and hardworking Nigerian who has no skeleton of any sort in his cupboard, unlike President Buhari, who is now entangled in series of corruption allegations. He recalled that even the chairman of President Buhari’s Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay, had since told the world that the Buhari presidency has searched everywhere and could not find anything incriminating on Atiku Abubakar. The PPCO counseled President Buhari and the APC to note that Nigerians can see through their lies, fabrications and frustration, adding that federal government’s scheme against Abubakar was already dead on arrival. Ologbondiyan said, “The world already knows that this attempt to mudsling our presidential candidate is coming out of President Buhari’s frustration over Atiku Abubakar’s successful outing in the United States, for which the Buhari presidency has gone into full hallucination. “This is in addition to their frenzied face-saving effort to divert public attention from President Buhari’s humiliating appearances in the respective rallies and Television shows he has had. “If anything, the PPCO will want President Buhari to open the books and provide explanation for the N9 trillion stolen under his watch as Minister of Petroleum Resources as detailed in the leaked NNPC memo. “President Buhari should as well, allow an open inquest into the alleged involvement of his relations in the N1.032 trillion alleged corrupt acquisitions in 9Mobile and Keystone Bank PLC. “Finally, the PPCO states that the PDP Presidential candidate, our great party and indeed all Nigerians, who have already reached a national consensus to vote-in Atiku Abubakar as the next President of our country, will not be distracted by this unfounded allegation by the rejected President Buhari and his handlers”. They Are Jittery – Atiku In his reaction, the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, said the governing APC and the federal government are jittery knowing that they have failed Nigerians. He said Buhari’s days as president of Nigeria are numbered, which explains why members of the ruling party have been running from pillar to post, even as he noted that it is disgusting to keep spinning allegations of corruption against him over the collapse of Bank PHB. Challenging the federal government to either prove his alleged involvement the slush funds that led to the collapse of Bank PHB or remain quiet forever, Abubakar mocked the federal government over its failed bid to get the United States government to deny him visa. He said with or without a trip to the US, the PDP will dislodge the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) at next month’s election. The former vice president also dismissed as cock and bull story, the allegation by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed that he has a case to answer over the collapse of Platinum Habib Bank. In a statement issued yesterday in Abuja by his special assistant on public communication, Mr Phrank Shaibu, the PDP presidential candidate asked the federal government to bury its head in shame having failed to stop him from travelling to the US. He said it is shameful that the governing APC took it upon itself to call on the authorities of another country not to grant a private citizen entry visa, which ordinarily should not be its business. Abubakar stated: “It is disgusting to continue to spin allegations of corruption against me by people who have failed to come forward with a single shred of evidence of my misconduct while in office. Isn’t it a shame that the ruling party whose National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole only yesterday gave official confirmation to the general belief that even if Lawrence Anini becomes an APC member today, Buhari will forgive and consecrate him can turn around to accuse me of corruption today? “They just suddenly woke up to the reality that, their lies about Atiku being corrupt can no longer hold? I challenge the federal government to come up with evidence that I benefitted from N156 million slush funds through Claremont Management Services Account on 13th January, 2009 as well as the collapse of Bank PHB as they have alleged. It is instructive to note that the same Bank PHB is now Keystone bank which was said to have been acquired by Buhari’s cronies through AMCON last year.” Abubakar further said Nigerians have already made up their minds to send President Buhari packing on February 16, 2019 and there is nothing the ruling party can do about it. “Tell them that their days of deceit are numbered. Nigerians are tired of them and they can no longer lie or take the people for a ride anymore”, he stated. Atiku added that it was a mark of the idleness of the folks in charge of the APC that they resorted to lobby the US to deny him visa when they should be busy strategising on how to save their party from an imminent defeat. “I am shocked that the minders of the governing APC can be lobbying the US to deny me visa when no other party is in a bigger mess than the APC following the confusion arising from its unprecedented record of non-performance”, he stated. He noted that three and a half years into the Buhari administration, no appreciable progress has been made in any sector, whether in the area of the economy, infrastructure, health, education, security or employment. He said the prevailing situation in the country is due to the lack of initiative of the ruling APC, which has in turn robbed the party of the wisdom needed to tackle the massive unemployment level and mindless violence, including kidnapping, armed robbery, killings by herdsmen that are ravaging the country. Atiku said Nigerians are sick and tired of hearing the same promises of job creation and employment generation without anything to show. “There is no need to worry, as we shall unveil on Sunday, January 20, 2019 ‘Buhari’s Hall of Shame’. It’s a scorecard of failure, incompetence, nepotism and a President’s proclivity to harbouring indicted and other famed thieves of our patrimony. Date and venue shall be made public in due course”.