In continuation of its renewed offensive against insurgents, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has destroyed a building which the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) fighters used for their meeting near Baga in the northern part of Borno State. The airstrikes were carried out by NAF’s Air Task Force (ATF) of “Operation Lafiya Dole.” NAF director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, who spoke of the successful operation, explained that it was launched on Tuesday. In a statement he issued in Abuja yesterday, Daramola said that the attack was conducted on January 1 after a series of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions confirmed that the building was being used as an assembly point by the terrorists. He said: “Consequently, the ATF dispatched a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Alpha Jet aircraft to attack the building. A direct hit was recorded on the target leading to significant damage to the structure and neutralisation of the occupants.”  Defence Minister Relocates To Borno Meanwhile, the minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, has relocated to Maiduguri on the order of President Muhammadu Buhari to assess the prevailing situation and report his findings to him. The president’s directive followed reports of the escalation of terrorists’ attacks in Borno North. Dan-Ali confirmed to newsmen yesterday that he was in the state on the order of Buhari after a two-hour closed-door meeting with the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen Tukur Buratai, at the Military Command and Control Centre. The meeting was attended by the Chief of Training and Operations, Maj-Gen Lamidi Adeosun, Principal Staff Officers at the Army Headquarters and Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj-Gen Benson Akinroluyo. Others were the officers in charge of the Air Force and Navy components of the operations, as well as some field commanders. Dan-Ali said: “I am here on the instruction of Mr. President to see the happenings in the Theatre Command of the Operation Lafiya Dole. I have been briefed by the commander and the Chief of Army Staff. “I am here to know what is expected, what the president should do to make things work and I have been briefed. So, I will take home all the briefings by the commanders here,’’ he said. After the briefing, Dan-Ali left for the Republic of Chad where he is expected to hold a meeting with his Chadian counterpart on the recent attacks by the Boko Haram terrorists on areas bordering Chad and Nigeria. The terrorists attacked troops’ locations at Baga and Monguno in Borno north between December 26 and December 28, but were repelled. The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, and the Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Ibot-Ette Ibas, had paid operational visit to the theatre to assess the security situation. 