Despite the ban placed on second hand tyres and continued efforts by the Nigerian Customs Service to prevent its influx into the country, the products have not only gained traction but also become one of the most profitable business ventures in the country. PATRICK OCHOGA, OLAJIDE FABAMISE, ANAYO ONUKWUGHA and GABRIEL ATUMEYI present their findings Second hand tyres also known as “tokunbo or Belgium tyres” are tyres that have been used in other countries and are imported into Nigeria to serve the needs of motorists and vehicle owners. Given the dangers associated with the use of second hand tyres, the federal government of Nigeria in 2016 placed a ban on the importation of the product into the country. Government’s position was that already used and expired tyres from other countries are partly responsible for the high rate of fatalities on Nigerian roads.  But despite the ban and the reasons adduced by government, this product continues to find its way into the country and is still massively patronized by vehicle owners who see it as a life line, especially in times of biting economic situation. That decision of government to ban the product was widely criticised by Nigerians on the basis that companies that were hitherto engaged in tyre manufacturing in Nigeria have overtime relocated from Nigeria to other countries because of poor business environment, leaving the average Nigerian who cannot afford costly imported brand new tyres with no choice but to settle for the alternative available. Consequently, second hand tyre market enjoys a boom due to a seeming comparative cost advantage to the consumers even if it has some safety issues. While authorities have constantly maintained that such tyres are usually expired or rethreaded, dealers and their customers have also maintained that they are not all expired or rethreaded and if they are well handled and managed, they will serve their purposes. Giving the absence of tyre manufacturing companies in the country and the high cost of brand new imported tyres, in major tyre markets and depots across the country, second hand tyres could be seen freely exhibited and sold and is even patronized by agents of the government. Findings have also shown that consumers appear to be unaware that tyres have expiration dates in spite of the claims of enlightenment campaigns by the relevant authorities. Our correspondents in selected states, who went round to interrogate a number of stakeholders in the transport business and road users, present their findings and the revelations, are breath-taking. Amaechi Ikechukwu, is the vice chairman of Zuba Tyre Dealers Association, he told LEADERSHIP Weekend that without doubt Nigerians are massively patronizing used or second hand tyres. In his words, “Nigerians who are at the mercy of the economy have no choice but to buy second hand tyres which is what they can afford. These days, people do not even come to buy foreign second hand tyres, but Nigerian second hand. They are looking for very cheap tyres that are within their means. So the second hand tyre business is really good for those who engage in it.” Ikechukwu maintained that the problem is not banning but to put proper policies in place and implement them. Citing the need to bring back indigenous manufacturers of tyres to the country, he revealed that people don’t even come for the normal good Belgium, but are now going for anything, just something they can afford to get their cars running. On his part, Kenneth Eze, a tyre dealer at Tyre Plaza at Apo area of Abuja disclosed that most Nigerians patronize second hand tyres. According to him, “We still get supplies of second hand tyres, ban or no ban, and customers are buying them. Depending on how things are, I can sell an average of 300 second hand tyres in a month, so for me it is good business. “The truth is that both new and used tyres are moving in the market. Those who purchase new tyres are basically companies or government agencies and maybe a few very wealthy persons. “The attraction for used tyres is the price. If you compare the price difference you will understand why. While the second hand tyre sells for around 7,000, the new tyres may sell for around, N26,000 to N28, 000 or N30, 000 or N40, 000 or even more depending on the quality.” Eze also disclosed that there are second hand tyres that are better than new China made tyres. ‘’I personally prefer second hand tyre because I know a good second hand tyre when I see one,” he added. Amaechi Eze, a dealer in used tyres, disclosed that the second hand tyre business has continued to thrive despite the ban because Nigerians know that it still serves. “The second hand tyre is moving, it is a booming business, we have good turnover, people are patronizing second hand tyres because of the economic crisis,” he said. “I can tell you that 60 per cent of car owners cannot afford to buy new tyres, so they end up making do with what they have. In terms of service, second hand tyres is good and we have different types of second hand tyres. We are into it, we know what we are talking about. ‘’You know sometimes a person may come to buy second hand tyre and we agree to sell it to him for N7,000 with at least one year warranty but the person may say the price is high, and may go to the next shop and get the same size of tyre at the rate of 4,000 or 5,000 maybe within one or two months the tyre may have problem and the person will end up concluding that second hand tyre is bad.’’ He said even the big boys in town also buy second hand tyres and claims he can sell as much as 200 second hand tyres in a month. Nwosu Ekenne Raphael, who sells new tyres at the same Tyre Plaza, close to Apo Village however revealed that business is going well for both those dealing in new and used tyres. According to him, “Both second hand and the new tyre business are doing well side by side. But some people believe that second hand tyres are better. But the only reason is that they are relatively cheaper. “For me on the average, I sell about 100 new tyres in a month, even though people say there is no money. If you check, you will discover that there are more shops for new tyres than that of used tyres. But that notwithstanding, those who sell used tyres also sell large quantities on a daily basis.” On his part, Elder Simeon Nwosu, who also deals in new tyres in Apo, said without doubt the second hand tyres enjoy greater patronage because it is what the common people can afford. “Everything seems to depend on your choice and capacity at a particular time, but this time of economic crunch, people prefer buying second hand tyres,” he said. “The fact is that there is no money in the country and people are just managing their lives. I will not deny the fact that the second hand tyres are seriously competing with us for market share. At a point one can argue that the second hand tyres are enjoying more share of the market. But like I said earlier it’s a matter of choice and how much one places on safety. “Not everybody will prefer buying second hand tyre because of the risk. New something is new something because you cannot play with your life. So people who can afford it prefer buying new tyres but if you can’t afford it because of the situation of things in the country you buy second hand.” Chukwu Ebuka, a dealer on second hand tyres in Apo who also spoke to our correspondent said despite the fact that second hand tyres are smuggled into the country even government officials still patronize them. “You know the second hand tyres have been banned by the government so all these ones you are seeing in the market were smuggled into the country,” Ebuka said. He added that it is not every business person or dealer that have the money to engage in the new tyres business. “For instance,” he said, “One container full of new tyres is about N40,000,000. How many business men are ready to commit that kind of money or even have it? So the option is to start on a small scale, and the starting point is usually Belgium tyres, maybe as time goes on they can switch into new tyres. Most of us started that way.” He said the market for second hand tyre business is doing very well, even though government is advising against it. “I know of individuals in the forces that come to my shop to buy use tyres. Sometimes because of what people might say, they come in mufti clothes just to hide their identity. Many Nigerians can’t afford brand new tyres, so that is just it.” Speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend, one Saeed Adebisi, a taxi driver who shuttles between Area 1 junction and Gwagwalada in Abuja, explained that the preference for the second hand tyres over new may be as a result of the economic downturn. “People are patronizing the second hand tyres, especially taxi drivers, hardly would you see a taxi driver come to buy a new tyre, where will he get the money from, he asked rhetorically, adding, “In any case, the Belgium tyres are serving them very well according to the grade. ‘‘You cannot expect someone who buys a lower grade to use it for up to a year. Usually he uses it for just a few months. That is what his money can afford at that time. So the Belgium tyres serve according to the grade. The people who are patronizing Belgium tyres are people who don’t have money.” Some consumers who spoke with LEADERSHIP Weekend in Lagos said they preferred the fairly used tyres to new ones because of the economic hardship in the country. Mr. Ayodele Musa, a motorist, who said he had always patronised fairly used tyres, disclosed that he had never been disappointed. Musa said: “Tokunbo tyres are very cheap when compared with the new ones and I believe they are even stronger and better than the new ones. “The tyre I am using now was bought almost two years ago and it hasn’t disappointed me yet, so I do not see any reason why I should stop buying it.” Mr. Gabriel Amaechi, a taxi driver, said he does not believe that fairly used tyres caused accidents as is being claimed by some Nigerians. According to him, speeding is the major cause of road accidents because “if one is not on speed, he can control his car if anything happens to his tyre.” Another motorist, Mr. Etim Udoh said the cost of purchase as a major factor preventing vehicle owners from buying new tyres. “Many people are not financially buoyant to purchase new sets of tyres instead they go for second hand-tyres which are about to expire,” he said. A tyre dealer, Mr. Adebiyi Nelson, blamed the use of second hand tyres on lack of education and orientation by necessary agencies. He said some of the tyres being shipped into the country through the port and porous borders are already prohibited in other parts of the world. “But despite the campaign and mobilisation against the use of expired tyres especially, majority of vehicle owners still prefer to buy second- hand tyres many of which had already expired,” he said. According to findings from our correspondent in Lagos, price difference is the major motivation for Nigerians who patronize the second-hand tyres, which most often are already expired even before they are shipped into the country. The price of second-hand tyres ranges between N4000 and N6000, depending on the ‘grade’, while the price of the new ones ranges between N13, 000 and N45, 000 depending on the size and the manufacturer. In other parts, findings from LEADERSHIP Weekend shows that the high patronage of used tyres may not only be connected with affordability but also its durability. In Benin City, Edo State capital, at the popular Textile Mill Road, Mr Ero Austin who deals on Belgium tyres told our correspondent that he enjoys boom in sales because of it affordability and durability compared to new ones. According him: “I have been into this second hand tyre business since 2013. In 2013 my intention was to start dealing on news tyres but after a market survey, I discover that the demand for second hand tyres is very high, so I decided to start selling second hand tyres. “Nobody will like to buy goods and keep them in the shop for a long time. As far as I am concerned, if I buy the new ones it will tie my capital down even when I have bills such as house rent, school fees and other expenses to pay.” On why the old ones are more durable than the new ones, he explained that “it depends on how you view it but most of the components used in fabricating the old ones like the chemicals are very authentic and they are produced for European markets not for Africa or Nigeria. However, that is not to say we don’t have new ones that are good. But if you are buying China products you are wasting your time and money. “How many people can buy Michelin, Dunlop or Continental new tyres? And that is why many also go for China products which is cheaper even though they are new. Second hand tyres are 70 per cent cheaper than the new ones. The price of one brand new tyre can give you three second hand tyres. It is not as if good new tyres are not available, most car owners are scared because of the high cost.” Ola Atanda, a second hand tyre dealer at James Swat, Benin, disagrees with the position of Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC), that most road accidents are traceable to the use of Belgium tyres, insisting that the blame should be on the influx of Chinese made tyres. According to him, “For me, it is not true that Belgium tyres are the causes of road accidents. We have seen a situation where even the so called new ones can burst after few days of purchase. So I see the campaign to discourage the use of second tyres as an attempt to push us out of business.” But Uche who deals on new tyres and other car accessories countered Atanda’s position. He said that China tyres remain the most durable noting that those who go for second hand tyres do that because it is cheap. Some commercial drivers and transporters who spoke with our correspondent in Rivers State, said they prefer using fairly-used tyres to brand new tyres because they are economical and cheaper. Otonye Simeon, a taxi driver who plies the Lagos Bus-Stop-Borokiri route in Old Port Harcourt Town, told our correspondent that many commercial drivers cannot afford to buy brand new tyres every six months or one year. He said: “To us as taxi drivers, Belgium tyres are the best for us because they are cheaper and more economical. You can get a Belgium tyre for as low as N4, 000 and it can last for at least six months before you start looking for a replacement.” Also Speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend, a commercial bus driver, who pleaded for anonymity, said most commercial drivers chose Belgium tyres because they believe that it is the best for the Nigerian roads. “Look at the state of roads in this country; how do you expect a driver to cough out at least N30,000 to buy brand new tyre that will be damaged by the roads in less than one month?”, he asked. However, the manager of a transport company that plies the Port Harcourt-Lagos route, Mr. Basil Ekeopara disagreed with the notion that Belgium tyres are economical and the best for the roads, insisting that it is only poverty that pushes most drivers into buying fairly-used tyres. Ekeopara said: “I believe that it is poverty that pushes most drivers into buying Belgium tyres. You cannot claim that tyres that have been used and discarded by some people are the best. It is just poverty. A lot of drivers cannot afford to buy brand new tyres that cost between N20, 000 and N45, 000 depending on the quality.” When contacted, the spokesperson of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Bisi Kazeem said the enforcement on ban of used tyre is still in place. Kazeem further stated that the officials of FRSC are tasked with the job of checking for expired tyres on the road and to arrest any defaulter, noting that FRSC mandates did not include going from store to store to check for expired tyres. On his part, the National Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Joseph Attah who spoke to our correspondent on phone, said the service has strictly enforced clamp down on smuggling of used tyres into the country. Attah who said several thousand of used tyres were seized in 2018 also urge Nigerians to stop patronising vendors of used tyres for their safety. He said, “Just like every other banned product, few still find their way into the country. We will continue to sensitise Nigerians about the danger of it but the truth is that we ensure that used tyres does not come into the country by making thousands seizures over the years.” He also wondered why some Nigerians queried the seizures of tyres by the Customs anti-smuggling operatives. He noted that there is the need for all hands to be on deck including the media to sensitise the public on the dangers of the use of Tokunbo tyres because one needs to be alive before he can save money. “They ask why we seize tyres when the brand new ones are not affordable,” Attah said. “This is what we hear every time we seize tyres. But what people do not understand is that they need to be alive to save money. “Used tyres remain prohibited and Customs anti- smuggling operatives wherever they come across those things must seize them and arrest the people behind them. But like every other products, we can’t rule out the possibility of some people conniving with some criminals to bring in the product in to the country. But the bottom line is that if there is no patronage, that person who is able to sneak them in will not continue.”