A 27-year-old mother of six children has given birth to her seventh child while fleeing from the Boko Haram Terrorists’ (BHTs) attack in Baga. Zahira Mohammed Tukur, who yesterday, in Maiduguri, narrated to LEADERSHIP Weekend, how she escaped with others, when the terrorists invaded Baga, said she was being pushed on a wheelbarrow, while others were running on their foot, when her labour started before giving birth with the help of some women right inside a bush in Baga. She said after she was delivered of the baby, she was further pushed on the wheelbarrow to Monguno, where they were finally transported by vehicle to Maiduguri and dropped at the entrance of the Arabic Teachers’ Village IDPs camp. She, however, lamented that since their arrival at the camp, she has not been given adequate medical attention, adding that the newborn child, who is about 10 days old, has been crying for the past two days. She said even though she has gained entrance to the camp, she is not yet among the beneficiaries of the food and non- food items distribution to people, as well as shelter, hence, she is appealing to the government and camp officials to come to her aid and save her child considering the cold weather. “We stayed two days in the bush at Baga. Some of us were carried on wheelbarrows to escape. The old women among us assisted me in delivering the baby in the bush. We were running for two days with children without food or water. When we even reached Monguno, we were not allowed to enter, and we slept in the bush till the following morning, when the road was opened. “My husband’s name is Mohammed Tukur. When the terrorists invaded our village, we ran to different directions, and I have been told that he ran into Niger republic. I want government to help my child and me. Similarly, Kaltume Mohammed, who also fled the Baga attack alongside Zahira, said her husband’s first wife died while they were escaping from the terrorists, when she could no longer bear the pains of the journey. She said eight of their children are with her in the camp, while their husband is said to have also escaped towards Niger republic. “Since last week Friday that we entered the camp, they took our names, but had not profiled us. We have yet to get food, shelter and other benefits in the camp. My husband’s first wife died on the way here. I am here with five of her children and three of mine,” Kaltume said. LEADERSHIP Weekend, however, reports that the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) is also attending to the needs of the displaced in the camp, with food and non-food items, notwithstanding the fact that the camp keeps growing as more people flee Baga and other local government areas of northern Borno hit by the current resurgence of Boko Haram Terrorists’ attacks.