A former gubernatorial aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Gombe state and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO), Dr.  Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, The Sardaunan Gombe  has donated a Marcopolo bus to boost the Presidential campaign of  President Muhammadu Buhari, the gubernatorial campaign of Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya and other APC candidates in the state. While fielding questions from newsmen in Gombe, shortly after the donation over the weekend,  Gwamna said the donation of the bus was triggered by his vow to ensure that President Buhari and Inuwa win the 2019 general elections. It would be recalled that Dr Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, shortly after decamping to the APC in October pledged his support for the re-election of President Buhari and victory for Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya in Gombe State. According to him, the fight against corruption, prudent management of the resources of Nigeria and the repositioning of Nigeria on the diplomatic map in good light are what endear the APC presidential candidate to anyone that loves Nigeria. “I am donating this bus not because I want anything back but because I have a special interest in the wellbeing of Nigerians and to also show to the world that I am a man of my word. I promised to work for President Buhari and Alhaji Inuwa; this is the fulfilment of that promise and there is no going back.” “APC is our party and victory must be collectively sought. I am only contributing my quota for a cause I strongly believe is for the interest of Nigerians especially in Gombe State.” He added. “The present APC administration has taken the fight against corruption to the looters, saved over $43 billion as foreign reserve and that is being projected to hit $60 billion in 2019 because the President is honest. In the face of election one would have expected the reserve to drop as usual but there is a change in that regard.” He said Nigeria rating at the international level in terms of diplomatic relationship has tremendously improved because of the transparency of the president . Responding on whether he is doing the gesture because he was promise ministerial appointment. Gwamna said:  “Timing is key in politics and the time at hand is to work for President Buhari and Inuwa’s victory. I am very much focused on that for now.” “Like we do say in politics, when the time comes for that, we will cross the bridge but for now campaigning for APC victory at all levels is my agenda.” Gwamna added that he was not only donating the bus but he had also donated his teeming supporters to the APC, noting that PDP’s defeat would be announced after Feb. 16 and March 2 respectively.