A 42  years old man Mr Dickson Igbinoba, a father of two was killed in Benin City, Edo State  following a physical combat with one Mr Osakioya Egavoen over their lover. Before the tragic encounter the two men were said have been in a supremacy battle to undo each other as they exchanged rounds of blows at woman’s apartment leading to the death of Igbinovia. The incident which took place at Obasuyi Street in Egor quaters in Egor local government area of the state left many resident in utter shock and disbelieve. The deceased, who police identified as Mr Dickson Igbinoba, father of four, was allegedly killed by one Mr. Osakioya Egavoen, 41 with five children, during the fisticuffs inside the woman’s room. The woman, Ms Osasogie Edo-Ekhator, 37, mother of four children for two other men watched with chagrin as her two “lover guests” unleashed deadly aggression on each other. Police hinted that trouble started when the deceased who was cooling off at the lady room answered picked her call only to discover that the caller was another man. At the end of the conversation, the caller who turned out to be Mr Osakioya Egavoen allegedly drove to the lady’s residence where he met his rival “lover boy”, Mr. Dickson Igbinoba. A brief altercation said to have ensued between the duo, climaxed in a fight during which late Mr. Dickson Igbinoba collapsed as Mr. Osakioya Egavoen swiftly fled the scene. He was arrested by men of Ogida police station after few days of a manhunt. It was gathered that the suspect’s wife and children had fled their homes for fear of attack by aggrieved members of the bereaved family. The Public Relations Officer for Edo Police Command DSP Chidi Nwabuzor said the woman with her alleged killer lover had been arrested and they have made statements. While stating that investigation had commenced, he advised residents to always control their emotions to avoid unforseen circumstances of this nature. The sad and shameful extramarital affairs that led to the unfortunate incident occurred about 8pm on December 27, 2018.