No fewer than eleven (11), governorship candidates, from various political parties, have withdrew their ambitions in support of the re-election bid of All Progressive Party (APC) gubernatorial candidate in Adamawa state, Governor Muhammadu Bindow The candidates led by governorship candidates of Alliance National Party (ANP),   Alhaji Umar Jada, who  spoke on the others behalf  at the APC 2019 flag off campaign in Yola Wednesday said, their decision  to defect to APC was based on stewardship of APC government. Abdullahi Usman of the National Conscience Party (NCP), Bappari Umaru of KOWA Party, Elizabeth Isah of Change Advocacy Party (CAP) and Lami Musa of Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) were among the eleven welcomed into the APC by Adams Oshiomhole. The others included Badau Isaac Sa’adu of the Justice Must Prevail Party (JMPP), Bulame Naame of Progressives Peoples Alliance (PPA), Frank Usman Koshihula of MEGA Party, Sa’ad Maiyaki of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and Achubi Umar Jada of Alliance for National Party (ANP). Jada said their decision, was based on development brought by ruling APC administration, among the diverse people of the state. He said a memorandum of a understanding (MoU), have been signed by the candidates, to guaranteed their total supports to the APC in the 2019 elections. “Adamawa state had never witnessed developmental stride among its diverse people like in the time of APC, especially in the areas of health, education and humans capital development. “We have committed our total loyalty to Governor Bindow re-election and handed our structures to APC at all levels. In the state” He maintained. Receiving the candidates, the national chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole attributed the defection, to the transformation of the state by Gov, Bindow’s government in the last three years. Oshiomhole   thanked the defectors for the confidence, reposed in the leadership of APC, and assured to continue with the tradition of good hope come 2019 election. The APC national chairman accused Presidential candidate of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar, for his role in grounding the Nigerian Airways and high handed corruption in the last 16 years. “Use your PVs to support Buhari/Bindow in carry out the struggle for second term re-election. “We acknowledge the reaffirmation of people towards supporting APC administration in Nigeria. “Is only in corruption that PDP would defeat us if we are subjected to open debate”.  He further challenged PDP to open debate for score cards assessment, also announced that, government would award Maidugiri-Yobe-Mubi -Yola roads in the region. Gov. Muhammadu Jibrilla in his remarks at the occasion, said there is no alternative for the people of the North-East than to elect President Buhari, for his role in the restoration of peace as a result of Boko Haram insurgency. He urged people from the region, to reciprocate the gesture by voting in APC for more dividend of democracy. He promised to continue with his laudable program if elected for the second term Alhaji Ibrahim Bilal, APC chairman in the state, lauded the NWC of APC for direct conduct of the party primaries in the state, promised to deliver the state for APC in the next general election