The Executive Secretary, Anti-Corruption and Research- Based Data Initiative, Dennis Aghanya, has raised the alarm over threats to his life following his petition against Onnoghen for failing to declare five bank accounts with about $3m. The former media aide to President Muhammadu Buhari told Saturday PUNCH on Friday that a number of people have asked him to disown the petition against the CJN for a huge amount of money. He said those behind the threats were “the people who are telling Nigerians that the petition does not have merit.” He declined to identify the people making the threats. Aghanya said, “Since this petition came to light, they have been sending friends and families to me and at the same time issuing threats. They are giving me two options: If I don’t accept, I would go down six feet. If I mention the amount they are offering, it is something a hungry man would accept, something they cannot resist, big money,  as much as a billion naira.” According to the activist, those faulting his action should instead encourage the CJN to defend himself at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. He stated that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, did the right thing by ensuring the prosecution of Onnoghen for concealing five domiciliary accounts in Standard Chartered Bank. He dismissed arguments that the petition did not follow due process, noting that Nigerians should be concerned with the facts and evidences presented on the case “instead of leaving substance to chase shadow.” Aghanya again denied that the petition against Onnoghen was politically-motivated, noting that many other investigations were also being carried out by ARDI against other government officials whom he declined to identify. When asked if he feared for his life, Aghanya said, “I’m human, but then, it is God that gives life. Because I am a good Christian, I don’t feel bothered. If I were to be killed, do you know the kind of enemies I have had to contend with since I was born? The enemies would come, they would rise, do all sorts of things, but if God is with you, all those things would be in vain.” 