Nigeria oil frontier has been expanded by major industry player, Total, which has started production from its Egina field, located 1,600 metres of water depths and150 kilometres off the coast of the country. At peak, the oil field will produce 200,000 barrels per day (bpd), which represents about 10 per cent of Nigeria’s current production capacity. The Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) unit used to develop the giant Egina field is the largest Total has ever built and involved a record level of local contractors. Six of the 18 modules on the FPSO were built and integrated locally, and 77 per cent of hours spent on the project were worked locally. The start-up has been achieved close to 10 per cent  below the initial budget, which represents more than $1 billion of Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) savings, due in particular to excellent drilling performance where the drilling time per well has been reduced by 30 per cent. In a statement announcing the feat, the company’s president, Exploration and Production,  Arnaud Breuillac, said: “Total is proud to deliver a project of this size under the initial budget and to contribute to the development of Nigeria’s oil and gas sector by generating employment as well as building industrial capability. “Egina will significantly boost the group’s production and cash flow from 2019 onwards, and benefit from our strong cost reduction efforts in Nigeria where we have reduced our operating costs by 40 per cent over the last four years. “Furthermore, some upside potential nearby remains to be developed and we are studying in particular Preowei discovery tie-back to the Egina FPSO,” he said. Discovered in 2003, the Egina field is the second development in production on the Oil Mining Lease (OML) 130 following the Akpo field, which started in 2009. The Preowei field is another large discovery made on this prolific block for which an investment decision is scheduled for 2019. Total Upstream Nigeria Limited operates OML 130 with a 24 per cent interest, in partnership with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), South Atlantic Petroleum (SAPETRO), which owns 15 per cent), CNOOC E&P Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of CNOOC Limited (45 per cent) and Petrobras Oil and Gas BV (16 per cent).  Nigeria’s Ororo-2 Oil Field Development Suffers Set Back It is however not all-cheering news for the sector as Nigeria’s Ororo oil field development faces delayed production forcing the operators, Sirius Petroleum, to put off for the third time the planned spud of a second gas well from the field to an indefinite date. Ororo-2 well was to spud in the last quarter of 2018, according to the company, but would wait for a re-confirmation of the availability of the Adriatic 1 drilling unit from Cayman Islands-based Shelf Drilling Holdings Ltd. An earlier agreement was to mobilise the Adriatic 1 jack-up drilling unit from an adjacent oil block to the Ororo oil field for a possible November 2018 commencement of a 135-day work programme. Sirius indicated that the drilling unit can drill to depths of 25,000ft in maximum water depths of 350ft and has capacity to accommodate 120 people. Initially, Sirius had planned for an April 2018 spudding of the well using the Chinese oilfield services company, China Oilfield Services’ COSL Force jack-up unit. This was delayed till September 2018 before the company announced the following month the termination of the agreement with COSL and confirmed the new deal with Shelf Drilling. According to Sirius, the agreement for the Adriatic 1 jack-up unit, which the company had made a partial payment of $3 million, would have seen the spudding of Ororo-2 well take place in the last quarter of 2018, but drilling has been delayed once more until Shelf Drilling provides “definitive timing” for the mobilisation of the facility to the oil field offshore Ondo State in water depths ranging between 23ft and 27ft. Sirius, which has a 40 per cent economic interest in the oil field with indigenous partners Owena Oil & Gas (27 per cent) and Guarantee Petroleum (23 per cent), had earlier confirmed the drilling of the well, which is planned as a directional well targeting the D and G sand reservoirs, was to be completed in 45 days from mobilisation of the drilling rig to the project site. Sirius, which plans a 12-month extended well test after the drilling and completion of Ororo-2 to depths of 10,125ft, had previously committed to full-field development with at least five additional wells using six to eight laterals but all depending on the results of the delayed well. This field is adjacent to Mina, West Isan, Ekwan, Eko and Parabe fields that are operated by American oil giant, Chevron. Chevron had in the 1980s drilled Ororo-1 well and discovered hydrocarbons in seven sand reservoirs of D1 to D5, F and G with two of the four reservoirs tested producing oil (D3 and G) while two others (D4 and D5) producing condensate.