No one could ever have contemplated that a day shall break when the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) would be drafted before a court for trial over criminal charges. Virtually all the indigenous Chief Justice of Nigeria beginning with Justice Sir Adetokunbo Ademola, the CJN from 1958 -1971, started their judicial career as Magistrates and rose through the cadres till they become  Justices of the Supreme Court. Such personality is expected, like an “iron alloyed with carbon’’ to become steel, has passed through the blast furnaces of law, coated against all manners of temptations, to the extent he won’t do what the laws forbid. But this is an interesting time. Some people believe we won’t need to get worried over this emerging discourse, new vista or new chapter in our rugged history; but the drafters of the 1999 Constitution did, they were wiser, had more foresight, and therefore included Section 292 in the Constitution. The drafters believe nobody is infallible, sinless or averse to temptation, just as corruption is not an exclusive preserve of the Nigerian politicians for example, or an art being practiced by certain class of people or professionals. But they also envisaged that an officer even so larger than life, above board and as mighty as the Chief Justice of Nigeria can be wrongly accused, or for pecuniary interest, hence they provided in the Constitution how such condition be treated. To be precise, Section 292 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) states that ‘’A judicial officer shall not be removed from his office or appointment before his age of retirement except in the following circumstances – (a) in the case of – (i) Chief Justice of Nigeria, President of the Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Chief Judge of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Grand Kadi of the Sharia Court of Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and President, Customary Court of Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, by the President acting on an address supported by two-thirds majority of the Senate. Section 292 (1) (b) goes further to say, ‘’in any case, other than those to which paragraph (a) of this subsection applies, by the President or, as the case may be, the Governor acting on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council that the judicial officer be so removed for his inability to discharge the functions of his office or appointment (whether arising from infirmity of mind or of body) or for misconduct or contravention of the Code of Conduct’’. Section 153 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) which created the National Judicial Council (NJC) vested it enormous power and functions to ‘’hire and fire’’, in other words the appointment and disciplining of the judicial officers including the Chief Justice of Nigeria. Curiously, NJC does not have criminal investigation unit or ‘’Fraud Detective Squad’’ like the Executive Arm ; that should necessarily detect and investigate criminal involvement of any judicial officers, lawyers, litigants (prosecutors) or defendants in the trial of  corruption and financial crime cases. By the provision of Paragraph 21 of Part One of the Third Schedule to the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, NJC shall have powers to recommend to the President the removal from office of the judicial officers of the federal courts, and to exercise disciplinary control over such officers (including the CJN). The ‘’Revised 2014 National Judicial Council’s Judicial Discipline Regulations’’ is a judicial discipline regulations which came into force on November 3, 2014. The regulations govern allegations and complaints of misconduct against judicial officers and proceedings initiated in exercise of the power of the NJC pursuant to part 1 of the Third Schedule of 1999 Constitution (as amended), to exercise disciplinary control over judicial officers against whom allegation of misconduct has been made. Of course, NJC has no criminal investigative unit, hence it relies on complaints or petitions submitted to it by individuals or group of individuals who are victims of actions or inactions of the judicial officers. In other words, for victimless misconduct of a judicial officer, no matter the gravity of judicial officer’s criminality, he goes free as long as nobody complained of it. Under the revised regulations, a complaint must be made within 6 months of the event or matter complained of, provided that a complaint relating to a continuing state of affairs may be made at any time while that state of affairs continues or within 6 months from when it ends. A complaint against a judicial officer, NJC said must be addressed to the CJN/chairman of the council and filed at the office of the secretary to the council or submitted to the office of the CJN or submitted to the Head of Court of the Judicial Officer to whom the complaints relate. By way of procedure, the CJN may assess the complaint or, may at his discretion, refer it to a Preliminary Complaint Assessment Committee, if he the CJN believes the complaint has merit. The question is, supposing the complaint is against the CJN, what action would NJC chairman take? This is more so that the chairman of the investigating committee must be of higher judicial rank than the subject of the disciplinary proceedings; and the members of committee whether serving or retired judicial officers may be of higher judicial rank than the subject of the disciplinary proceedings or of the same judicial rank as the subject of the disciplinary proceedings. Since it is not envisaged that a petition of significant magnitude can be brought before NJC against the CJN, there are no provisions in the Revised 2014 National Judicial Council’s Judicial Discipline Regulations on procedure to be adopted to address such a situation. But as a matter of custom, the CJN in such condition would ordinarily recuse himself, while the next most senior justice of the Supreme Court would preside as the NJC chairman. But there is a new twist in the disciplining of judicial officers in the country. No petition is filed before NJC, but rather by an action before the law court. On January 11, 2019, the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) summoned the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen to appear before it for trial on 6-count charge over failure to declare his assets fully before the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB). This brings one to arguments by the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) Chairman, Prof Itse Sagay (SAN) last week explaining why Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen’s assets non-declaration charge cannot first be determined by the NJC. In a statement, the eminent professor of law, citing constitutional provisions, argued that not every offence committed by a judicial officer must first be brought before the NJC. He added: “By the very logic of the powers of the NJC, cases arising out of a breach of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act and the Code of Conduct provision in the Constitution cannot come before the NJC. “If the NJC first decides the matter before the defendant is arraigned in court or at the Tribunal, what happens if the NJC finds the defendant liable and removes him from office as a Judge?  In that case, he ceases to be a Judicial Officer as well as a Public Officer. “Can he, therefore, be tried as a public officer before the Code of Conduct Tribunal?  The answer is no, because he is no longer a public officer. “The extant provisions of the Constitution and the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act would be rendered nugatory by a prior NJC involvement.” The PACAC chairman faulted arguments that the prosecution ought to comply with the Court of Appeal decision in the case of Nganjiwa vs. F.R.N. He said: “It should be noted first that this judgment contradicts the clear provisions of the Code of Conduct as established in the Constitution which gives the Code of Conduct Tribunal jurisdiction over all public officers, including the Chief Justice of Nigeria.  (See 5th Schedule, Part One, of the 1999 Constitution). “Moreover, the Court of Appeal in Nganjiwa’s case was directing its judgment to a judicial officer committing an offence in the process of carrying out his duties as a judge in a court namely: demanding bribe from a party to the case before him. “Therefore, the ratio decidendi in this case is much narrower in scope than is being touted by our all mighty Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs).  Filling an Assets Declaration Form is totally outside the ambit of a judicial officer’s work. It applies to all public officers. “If one may ask – should a drunken judge behind a car steering wheel kill an innocent pedestrian, will the offence be taken before the NJC, before the police can act on the crime? “Indeed, inspite of its defects, the Court of Appeal judgment in the Nganjiwa’s case expressly limited reference to the NJC only to cases of a judicial officers’ misconduct in court whilst exercising his authority as judge in case before him in court. “According to the court: ‘It must be expressly stated that if a Judicial officer commits theft, fraud, murder or manslaughter, arson and the likes, which are crimes committed outside the scope of performance of his official functions, he may be arrested, interrogated and prosecuted accordingly by the State directly without recourse to the NJC. These classes of criminal act are not envisaged and captured by the provisions of paragraph 21, Part One of the Third Schedule.’ “This demonstrates the hollowness and invalidity of the argument that every offence committed by a judicial officer must first be brought before the NJC, before the law enforcement agencies can entertain it.” Besides, Sagay believes that the NJC cannot be expected to be fair in Chief Justice Onnoghen’s case. “Almost all the Senior Advocates of Nigeria have argued that even in a case involving the breach of the Code of Conduct, for which the law has already made express provisions, the matter shall be taken to the NJC rather than to the Code of Conduct Tribunal. “They can’t be serious.  They must obviously be speaking tongue in cheek. Even a baby, three months old, must realise that no one can get justice against the CJN at the NJC. “The CJN is not only the Chairman of the NJC, he is also the appointer of 20 out of the NJC’s 23 members.  The CJN is the NJC. “Only a grossly ignorant man or an extremely mischievous one could seriously suggest that a matter involving the CJN should be brought before the NJC for adjudication. “Therefore, the whole idea of taking the present case to the NJC is a nonstarter, for that would make the CJN the Chief Judge of his own case – a clear violation, not only of the Constitution, but also of a long standing common law principle coming all the way from MAGNA CARTER in the year 1215,” the PACAC chairman said. Sagay was of the view that the substance of the charge against Chief Justice Onnoghen “is deliberately being abandoned by the SANs and some other lawyers.” “Why is Nigeria such a Theatre of the Absurd?  Today, we are only talking about preliminary objections, interim injunctions, challenge of jurisdiction, wrong procedure, etc., etc. “Nobody is talking about the substantive issue any longer.  That is now lost in the sands of time. “Did he do it?  Did he not do it?  The questions we should all be asking are contained in the front page of The Nation Newspaper of Tuesday 15th January, 2019: Did the CJN fail to submit a written declaration of all his assets and liabilities within prescribed period of three months after being sworn it? “Did he omit to declare a domiciliary (US dollar) account No. 870001062650 maintained with Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited? Did he falsely omit to declare a domiciliary (Euro) account No. 93001062686 maintained with the bank? “Did he falsely omit to declare a domiciliary (Pound Sterling) account No. 285001062679 with the Bank? “Did he falsely omit to declare an e-Saver Savings (naira) account No. 5001062963 maintained with the bank? Did he falsely fail to declare naira Account 010001062667?” Sagay advised Nigerians not be distracted by what he called a vicious and fraudulent campaign intended to sacrifice the substance and justice of the case on the altar of technicalities, adding that the truth must not be the first casualty in the matter. But former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), defers with Sagay. Instead, he described arraignment of the CJN before the CCT as unconstitutional, regardless of whether he was guilty or not. Agbakoba stated that it was outrageous to suggest that a CJN could be arraigned at all on any grounds, as the constitutional procedure clearly specified that he would have any charge against him laid before the Senate or the NJC, which is empowered to take disciplinary action against judges. According to Agbakoba, “It is outrageous to even suggest that a CJN can be arraigned at all on any grounds as the constitutional procedure clearly specified that the CJN will have a charge laid before the Senate for misconduct or the NJC, which is also empowered to take disciplinary action. “The courts have stated very clearly that the NJC is charged with the sole responsibility for disciplinary action against judges in addition to powers conferred on the Senate. “It is therefore unconstitutional to charge the CJN before a CCT, whether guilty or not.” 