The immediate past Chief of Defence Staff (CDS),  Air Chief Marshal Alex Sabundu Badeh, was buried yesterday at the  National Military Cemetery, Abuja, The late Badeh was committed to earth at 1:17pm with full military honours, even as senior military officers, serving and retired, paid tributes to the slain former defence chief. Badeh was shot dead on December 18, 2018 along Keffi-Abuja way while returning from his farm. In his tribute, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, described Badeh as an astute professional in his chosen career as a military pilot. Olonisakin said Badeh’s contributions as  CDS added value to the professional development of the Nigerian Air Force where he left a meaningful legacy. According to him, Badeh provided leadership and direction to the entire Armed Forces of Nigeria, especially in the fight against insurgency and terrorism. “Air Chief Marshal (ACM) Alex Sabundu Badeh was a compassionate leader, mentor and fine military officer. He retired from service in 2015; even in retirement, the ACM was full of energy and obviously had a lot to offer upcoming officers from his wealth of experience. “While we mourn our illustrious departed senior colleague today (yesterday), we take solace in our confidence that he has gone to rest in the blossom of the lord. We love but God loves you more,” he said. In his remarks, the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, stated that Badeh was an astute air man who earned over 6,000 hours during his flying career. Abubakar added that the circumstances surrounding his death should motivate members of the Armed Forces to tackle crimes decisively. “The loss of this professional and patriotic gentleman must spur the rest of us not only in the armed forces, but indeed in Nigeria to rededicate ourselves in the service of our nation and our people to deal decisively with crime and criminality. “We must continue to work and redouble our efforts in supporting the police and other internal security agencies to ensure the perpetrators of this heinous crime are brought to book “I’m deeply touched and saddened by the manner in which we lost such an accomplished general who attained the peak of his chosen career in the Nigerian Armed Forces,” the air chief said. Abubakar further described Badeh as “a very jovial, principled and compassionate general whose leadership and good nature positively influenced his peers and subordinates. “ACM AS Badeh will be greatly missed and fondly remembered for his invaluable service to the Nigerian Armed Forces and indeed Nigeria. “Be assured that NAF and  the nation will remain ever grateful to you for your service and sacrifice, “ he said As part of the military burial tradition, there was wreath laying by the secretary to the government of the federation  (SGF), the minister of defence, all the Service Chiefs (defence, navy, air force, army), Badeh’s widow, NoK and representative of the 21 regular course. 