The chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), Mr. Danladi Umar,  has said that all court orders restraining or stopping the CCT from proceeding with the trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, are not binding on it. The CCT, in a split decision of two to one, discountenanced the orders of the court on the grounds that the orders were made by courts of equal jurisdiction. It held that the CCT is a special court empowered to handle exclusively the issues relating to assets declaration. Mrs. Juli Anabor aligned herself with the chairman’s position while Justice Williams Atedze gave a dissenting judgment. Umar had, in his ruling, held that those who obtained the orders of the High Court were busy bodies because they were not parties in the matter at the tribunal. He declared the orders of the High Court and the National Industrial Court null and void on account of being inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution, adding that section 246 makes it crystal clear that the tribunal has unquantified jurisdiction to hear any assets declaration case as may be referred to it by the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB). Umar also disagreed with the request to adjourn the trial sine die on the grounds of a pending appeal at the Court of Appeal. He noted that section 306 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, ACJA, 2015, did not make provisions for stay of proceedings in a criminal matter and that, in the instant case, it would not be entertained. Atedze in his dissenting ruling held that it would result in judicial anarchy for the tribunal to proceed with the trial in view of the four subsisting court orders and the pending appeal at the Court of Appeal. He contended that orders are binding on the tribunal until they are set aside in view of section 287(3) of the 1999 Constitution which allows court orders to be enforced in all parts of the county, stressing that the CCT cannot operate in isolation. “Having summarised argument from both parties, it is my submission that CCT, as a creation of law, is bound by the existing court orders to avoid judicial anarchy,” he said. Atedze further held that the issue of jurisdiction of the tribunal to entertain the charge against CJN must first be resolved, hence the status quo must be maintained by adjourning proceedings sine die until all contending issues are resolved. Although the chairman ordered that the motion challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal be moved immediately, counsel to the defendant, Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN, however, informed the tribunal that the response of the complainant (federal government) was served on him late on Monday and, as such,  he needed time to study the response and then file a reply on point of law. Counsel to the federal government, Aliyu Umar, agreed that the government’s response was served late on the defendant, prompting the chairman to adjourn further proceedings till Monday,  January 28.