Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Professor Charles Dokubo, has revealed that despite pressure from certain quarters, President Muhammadu Buhari had refused to stop the Amnesty Programme. This is as he called on the people of Niger Delta to vote massively for Buhari in the forthcoming presidential election in appreciation of what he has been doing for the region through the programme. Dokubo, who spoke to newsmen yesterday at Abonnema, headquarters of Akuku-Toru local government area of Rivers State, said those who mounted pressure on the President to terminate the Amnesty programme, told him that it was set up as an ad hoc programme. Insisting that the only way Niger Deltans would show appreciation to the President was to vote for him en masse, the Presidential adviser said since the inception of the programme a lot of youths from the Niger Delta had benefited from numerous scholarships and vocational skills. He stated that vocational centres had been established at Kaiama and other places, assuring that more centres would be established during the second tenure of Buhari. Dokubo said: “The government has done a lot about the Amnesty programme. It has not relented in its support for the programme. The type of vocational centres that have been developed in Kaiama and other places, I strongly believe that the next time President Buhari is coming, which I know he will come, will even be better for this programme. “I believe President Buhari is the right person for this country and to sustain the Amnesty programme. I know  that he is going to win because of his good works. It is not about shouting. His good works will speak for him. President Buhari’s impeccable credential is such that the international community and most Nigerians believe in him. “Incorruptible, unshakable and transforming rulership. My people will vote for President Buhari because for us the sustenance of the Amnesty programme is vital to the survival of the Niger Delta”.