President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday told Nigerians that there is a glimmer of hope, as they are poised to witness a safe, secure, fair, just and prosperous country in 2019. In his New Year message to Nigerians to usher in the year 2019, the president, for the umpteenth time, declared that the 2019 elections would be free and affair. While assuring a level playing field for all contestants in the forthcoming general polls, Buhari also warned that election should not be a do-or-die affair. In the New Message made available to LEADERSHIP by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, the president stated that the year 2019 will be a very significant one for Nigeria. He said, “Nigerians desire peace, security, prosperity, inclusiveness and infrastructural development, a nation they can be proud of, a country that can hold its own among the nations. That is the journey we have embarked on since we came onboard in 2015, and we are not distracted as we move on. “We are resolved to build a country in which the resources are utilised for the benefit of the largest number, and not appropriated by a privileged few in their never ending quest to satisfy their greed.  We are on this mission together, and I assure you of a firm commitment to the ideals of a safe, secure, fair, just and prosperous country. “We have had our challenges: security, economic, political, social. But we are resolved to combat and overcome them all. I appreciate your support and collaboration in previous years, and look forward to same in 2019, and beyond, as I hope you will renew the mandate you overwhelmingly gave us in 2015, for another term. “We are motivated by nothing other than service to motherland, and service without selfishness or personal interest. I can assure you all that we are making steady and sustainable progress in all areas of national life. Those who are unbiased can see and appreciate the progress the country has made since 2015. A New Year provides opportunity for renewal of commitment, and I invite you to rededicate yourselves to the vision of a Nigeria that works for all”. On the 2019 polls, Buhari while warning that election should not be seen as do-or-die also left a message for those he said continue to broadcast falsehood and negativity. He said, “Those who continue to trumpet falsehood and negativity are on their own, fighting a losing battle. The greater number of Nigerians are trusting and believing that we shall deliver on our promises for a level playing field at the polls, and that is what we shall do”, he stated. “2019 will be an election year for us. In about two months, the polls are due, and we will elect leaders into various offices, at national and state levels. As I welcome you into 2019, I also reiterate my many promises and declarations that the general elections will be free, fair and credible. “Elections need not be do-or-die affair, and we should not approach that eventuality in a democracy with trepidation and mortal fear. Happily, a large number of presidential candidates have committed to peace, and peace we shall have”. The president observed that at the turn of every year, Nigerians often use the opportunity to look back at the past and forward to the future to review the outgoing year, its high and low points, successes and failures and be fully thankful to God. He noted: “We Nigerians are a religious people, and we believe that God reigns and rules in the affairs of men. A time like this offers precious opportunity for thanksgiving, stock taking and reflection on goals and targets set for the receding year, and how much was accomplished. The ones not done can then be rolled over into a new year “The dawn of a New Year is also a time to look forward. To consider new prospects, unfold our plans, and prepare for landmark dates and events”. While appreciating all Nigerians, the president expressed hope that the electorate will renew the mandate they overwhelmingly gave him in 2015, for another term. He continued: “I appreciate your support and collaboration in previous years, and look forward to same in 2019, and beyond, as I hope you will renew the mandate you overwhelmingly gave us in 2015, for another term. “We are motivated by nothing other than service to motherland, and service without selfishness or personal interest. I can assure you all that we are making steady and sustainable progress in all areas of national life. Those who are unbiased can see and appreciate the progress the country has made since 2015”.  Saraki Urges Nigerians to Remain Positive Also, Senate President Bukola Saraki has called on Nigerians to remain positive and hope for better days even as they celebrate the commencement of the New Year. In a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki said the current social, economic and political challenges would give room for better times if Nigerians remain hopeful and collectively work together to ensure a turnaround. He said, “I congratulate all Nigerians who are today ushering in a New Year in an atmosphere of peace. While a lot need to be done to increase the level of security in the land, revive our economy, gainfully engage our youths, the New Year gives us another opportunity to take steps that would lead us to our desired destination as a nation. “We can only overcome our challenges if we remain resolute in fighting for what is right and doing the right things. We should ensure the coming general elections are peaceful, free, fair and credible. All of us should abhor any illegal or violent activity”.  Dogara Urges Nigerians To Stay Hopeful On his part, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, yesterday urged Nigerians not to despair but look to the future with optimism and absolute faith in God as the country moves into 2019. In his New Year message, Dogara acknowledged that 2018 was characterised by unprecedented spate of needless killings, decline in the nation’s economy, unemployment, general insecurity and other acts of lawlessness due to poor governance. He added however that 2019 offers Nigerians a unique opportunity to renew their faith and hope in God and the country, as well as take full control of their destiny. Stressing the importance of the next few weeks preceding the general elections, the Speaker tasked Nigerians to be patriotic and committed to their civic responsibility by turning out enmasse to elect leaders that will be sensitive to their yearnings and aspirations, provide the requisite security for their lives and properties. He said, “The year 2019 presents a unique opportunity for us to take full control of our nation and our destiny. It is also time for us to take responsibility for our own lives, rekindle the spirit of community and strive towards making Nigeria work again in all its ramifications”.  Elect Leaders That Will Revive National Hope, Atiku Tells Nigerians Also, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has charged Nigerians to ensure that they elect a leadership that will revive national hope and make the economy and institutions work again, rather than settle for whatever the 2019 general elections bring. Atiku, in his new year message, lamented that Nigeria had become the world headquarters for extreme poverty in 2018. He said he is convinced that in 2019, “if we chart a new course, we can become the world headquarters for hope and extreme devotion to the cause of lifting our people out of poverty.” The former vice president added that 2019 can be the year when youths can get jobs instead of being unfairly tagged as lazy, stressing that with purposeful leadership, next year “we can put an end to terrorism and usher in a golden age of peace.” “2019 is as yet a blank page. As a nation, we must not settle for whatever it brings. Rather, we must take collective action, through our choices, in making it a year where we revive national hope, with visionary leadership that sees our economy and institutions working again as they did in our golden era”, he added.  We’ll Consolidate On The Gains Of Rapid Development – Wike Rivers State governor, Chief Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, yesterday wished the people of the state a prosperous 2019, urging them to use the New Year to consolidate on the gains of rapid development of the state since 2015. Wike, in a New Year message, thanked Rivers people for their support and cooperation, assuring that his administration will sustain the delivery of projects in the New Year. The governor stated that though the outgoing year had several challenges, Rivers people should march into 2019 with renewed hope for greater accomplishments. He said the numerous challenges in 2018 did not stop his administration from recording outstanding achievements in the area of road construction, healthcare delivery, provision of educational facilities, empowerment of the people, administration of justice, economic development and security of lives and property. Wike stated that 2018 would be remembered as a year when several key projects in the state were commissioned for over two months by eminent traditional rulers, national leaders and top political leaders from the six geo-political zones of the country.  Ayade Preaches Hope In 2019 Cross River State governor, Prof Ben Ayade, yesterday urged Cross Riverians to be hopeful of a better 2019 as the foundation his administration has laid in the last three years is progressively being crystalised through the rapid industrialisation of the state. In his New Year message signed by his chief press secretary, Mr Christian Ita, Governor Ayade said the herald of a New Year, which comes with new vistas, new aspirations and a revitalised hope, offers Cross Riverians the chance to look forward to a better Cross River in 2019. He said, “Seeing out a year gone by and ushering in a new one is always a moving experience. If we take stock of the year gone by, we have every reason to be happy as our expectations are being fulfilled and our efforts at building a virile, stable and sustainable Cross River is crystalizing.” While soliciting a hand of fellowship to actualise the dreams envisioned by his administration, the governor said, “Today, I thank you for standing by us so far and for the great support we have received from you. I also urge you to stretch your hands along with me that together, we may force a dawn of greatness on Cross River State.”  PDP Assures Nigerians of Brighter Future The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) has urged Nigerians to step into 2019 with unwavering optimism, faith and hope of a new era of peace, national cohesion and economic prosperity under a new president, Atiku Abubakar. The PPCO congratulated Nigerians for their resilience in surviving what it claimed was the almost four years of President Buhari’s incompetence, anti-people and harsh administration. It also urged them to use the New Year to pray against all negative projections by the president, who had declared more hardship for Nigerians in the coming year. The spokesman of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan in a statement said, “Nigerians must therefore avert such negative projections by voting out President Buhari and replacing him with their choice leader, the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku, who has already articulated a practical blueprint to ease their burden and pain by engendering rapid economic recovery, national cohesion and realistic solutions to our myriad of challenges. “2019, as an election year, offers our citizens their much-desired opportunity to end the trajectory of economic hardship, hunger and starvation, strange diseases, untimely deaths, collapsed infrastructure, humongous  unemployment figures, wanton killings and all the evils that have bedeviled our nation in almost four years of the President Buhari’s corrupt and incompetent administration”. Similarly, the national chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus charged Nigerians to see 2019 as the restoration year for the country, noting that it would be a turning point in the emerging political evolution of the country. The PDP national chairman, in a New Year message to Nigerians, added that the future of the country lies in the voting decisions they make in the New Year.  Ooni Urges FG To End Boko Haram On his part, the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi (Ojaja II), has charged the federal government to ensure it puts an end to the menace of Boko Haram in 2019. He also admonished Muslims and Christians to imbibe the spirit of humble repentance before God and mutual forgiveness within and between communities in the New Year. Ooni Ogunwusi who said this in his end of the year message released by his director of media and public affairs, Comrade Moses Olafare, wished Christians in Nigeria a merry Christmas charging them to continue upholding the Jesus Christ’s legacy of peace and love for the enhancement of national unity. He noted that Christians have remained spiritually steadfast in their determination for a greater Nigeria as they have through prayers and fellowships unarguably made colossal sacrifices to the nation building for political stability, national security and socio-economic development. Urging the federal government to end insurgency, the statement noted: “Ooni is very unhappy about the wanton killings of innocent Nigerians and destruction of properties especially perpetrated by Boko Haram insurgents and other enemies of peaceful coexistence in the country. He hereby calls on the Federal Government of Nigeria to make 2019 a remarkable year which sees to the final end of this ugly menace”.  Mark Urge FG, ASUU To End Strike Former president of the Senate, Senator David Mark, has urged the federal government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to take necessary steps toward resolving the industrial action that has crippled public institutions. Senator Mark in a press release signed by his media aide, Mr Paul Mumeh, said something has to be done to resolve the imbroglio that has lingered for so long. “Whichever side it is viewed, this incessant strike is retrogressive and retarding development”, he stated. To mark the New Year, Senator Mark urged both parties to as a matter of necessity honour the agreements reached; otherwise, it becomes ridiculous entering into agreement if it would not be respected. In 2019, Mark proposed that “both the government and the governed must resolve to say enough is enough and bye bye to all forms of criminality to usher in a new era of peace, freedom and an egalitarian society where everyone is his brother’s Keeper”.  Socio-Economic Challenges Could Be Overcome– ACF The apex Northern socio-cultural organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has said, while the year 2018 has come and gone with challenges and hope, the year 2019 will be judged on how best the socio-economic challenges could be overcome. The forum’s secretary general, Anthony Sani, in a New Year message sent to LEADERSHIP, said whether the incumbent government, with its record and limited resources, deserves second term or the rhetoric of the opposition are assuring enough to deserve being voted remains a matter of conjecture. ACF said, “The year 2018 has come and gone with its challenges and hope. The challenges were those posed by insurgency. Others include those caused by kidnapping and clashes between herdsmen and farmers which tended to disturb the peace in some states. Poverty due to unemployment was reported across the country. “But I think there will be more on the issues and how best the socioeconomic challenges could be overcome and whether the records of the incumbent government with limited resources deserve second term or the rhetoric of the opposition are assuring enough to deserve being voted for is matter of conjecture”.  Be Ready To Defend Your Votes In 2019, CUPP Tells Nigerians The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) yesterday said, while 2019 holds a bright future for Nigeria, the people must be ready to defend their decision after voting out APC at the general elections. The CUPP in its New Year message said 2018 was a year when poverty, job loss and impunity was promoted by the APC-led administration and warned that 2019 will be more painful if President Buhari is not rejected at the polls. 