The United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK) have joined forces with Nigeria to make the forthcoming general elections free and fair. Among other measures, the two countries announced yesterday, visa restrictions on Nigerian politicians or persons who instigate violence, rigging and other election-related offences during the polls, which begin on February 16 with the presidential contest. The US, specifically said that it would be on the watch-out for individuals who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence against the civilian population before, during or after the elections. Apart from such individuals, the US said that its consequential actions, such as travel ban, could be extended to their families. In separate press statements they made available to journalists in Lagos, the two countries, who are Nigeria’s strong allies in the international community, reiterated their commitment to providing significant support for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). They said that the conduct of the upcoming elections is important not only for Nigeria, but for the African continent. The US said that it does not support any candidate or party in the country but the democratic process to ensure that Nigeria conduct elections that are genuinely free and peaceful. The US press statement read: “The United States government does not support any specific candidate or party in Nigeria’s upcoming elections. The United States supports the Nigerian democratic process itself. We support a genuinely free, fair, transparent and peaceful electoral process. “We and other democratic nations will be paying close attention to actions of individuals who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence against the civilian population before, during or after the elections. We will not hesitate to consider consequences, including visa restrictions for those found to be responsible for election-related violence or undermining the democratic process. Under US immigration law, certain violations may also lead to restrictions on family members. “We welcome the signing of peace pledges by Nigerian candidates and their commitment to a peaceful electoral process,” Also, the UK government declared its unwavering support for credible elections in Nigeria, stressing that “23 days to the presidential and National Assembly elections and 37 days to the gubernatorial and state assembly elections, the British High Commission in Abuja would like to reaffirm our strong support for free, fair and peaceful elections in Nigeria. “We and our international partners remain committed supporters of Nigeria’s democracy. We do not support any party or individual and believe that the Nigerian people should be able to choose their leaders in an environment free from hate speech and insecurity. “We will continue to provide significant support to Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission and to the Nigerian civil society to help them deliver credible elections. We also regularly engage with actors across the political spectrum to encourage them to respect electoral rules and maintain an atmosphere of peace and calm. We will be deploying an extensive observation mission for the forthcoming elections, including coordinating with the European Union’s Election Observation Mission. “Our monitors will in particular be looking out for any attempts to encourage or use violence to influence the elections, including on social media. We would like to remind all Nigerians that where the UK is aware of such attempts, this may have consequences for individuals. These could include their eligibility to travel to the UK, their ability to access UK-based funds or lead to prosecution under international law. “The UK is a friend and partner of Nigeria. We hope our continued support will play a role in helping Nigeria take a further step towards consolidating the progress made since democracy returned in 1999,” it said.