President Muhammadu Buhari has named Adamu Mohammed the acting inspector general of police (IGP) to replace the retiring  inspector-general of police, Ibrahim Kpotun Idris, who has been on the saddle since June 21, 2016. Mohammed is a former commissioner of police in Enugu State. He had worked as deputy commissioner of police in Ekiti State and at the United Nations and Interpol before he rose to the rank of assistant inspector general of police (AIG). Before his appointment, the new IGP was serving at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, near Jos. His appointment will no doubt douse the tension surrounding the tenure of  outgoing IGP Ibrahim Idris which, many had thought, would been extended due to the imminent national elections. LEADERSHIP recalls that some opposition elements, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have been critical of ex-IGP Idris’ activities as the police boss, accusing him of showing partiality for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Thus, the party has been one of those to kick against the elongation of his tenure. Idris, born on January 15, 1959, will retire today having attained the retirement age of 60. He was expected to have retired on January 3 after completing the mandatory 35 years in service. LEADERSHIP gathered that the new IGP acquitted himself admirably when he worked at the Interpol Headquarters in Lyon, France. It was reported that his brilliance and performance made him the first African director at the Interpol Headquarters during his secondment years at the Institution. Upon his return to Nigeria in 2009 from the international assignment, he was promoted to the rank of a Deputy Commissioner of Police and subsequently took charge of the Force Peace Keeping office. He is credited with sanitising and standardising the peace keeping activities of the Nigerian Police Force. Mohammed was born on November 9, 1961 and enlisted in the police in 1986. He hails from Nasarawa State and has a bachelor’s degree in geography. He is also fluent in French language.