Wife of the president, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, yesterday called on women and youths in the country to give President Muhammadu Buhari a second chance by massively voting for him in the February 19 presidential election. Mrs Buhari spoke at the flag off of the North West campaign for Buhari by the president’s women and youth campaign team at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kofar Mata, in Kano State. According to her, women and their children have a greater role to play in supporting the current initiative to bring back the present administration under the stewardship of President Buhari. She said, “As a mother, I urge you to support the president just as you supported him in 2015 without a single penny. Likewise, now in 2019 we still need your support to scale through since the election is fast approaching. “We need your cooperation to be able to give the president the chance to consolidate on the projects he has started so that the aim and objectives of the government could be achieved. Our main concern this time around once given the mandate is to focus more attention on Agriculture, Health and Education of our children “This has become instructive if one looks critically at the level of backwardness our youths, especially those in the North, are experiencing as a result of poor planning by the previous administration”. Aisha noted that as a vulnerable group in the Society, the women need special attention for them to be bailed out of the socio-economic problems they are encountering. “The present administration has done enough for women through numerous social programmes as well as interventions to cushion the effect of the domestic problems they encounter daily in their matrimonial homes.” The wife of the president posited that as mother of the nation she owes it as a duty to make sure the feeding of primary school children is maintained so that more pupils would be attracted to join. Speaking earlier, wife of Kano State governor, Dr Hafsat Ganduje, said women are fully carried along in every sphere of human endeavour in the state. Citing as an example the opportunity given to women in Kano to hold various political offices, she said, “Today we have about 88 female Councillors and 22 female special advisers”, even as she added that Kano State had promised President Buhari five million votes and that by the grace of God, four million is coming solely from women. In their brief remarks the former governor of Lagos State, Brigadier General Buba Marwa (rtd), and his counterpart from Akwa Ibom State, Chief Godswill Akpabio, said Buhari has done a lot in fighting insurgency and repositioning the nation on the right track for social development through tenacious fight against corruption. Among women of substance who graced the occasion were wives of the Governors of Kano, Katsina, Borno, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kaduna, Imo, Osun, Ogun and Ekiti States, among others. The flag off of the campaign by the Buhari women and youth campaign team also attracted thousands of female supporters of the APC from the North West zone and from all the 44 local government areas of the state.