Plots by the opposition elements to use Boko Haram insurgents and bandits to scuttle the forthcoming general elections have been uncovered by the federal government. The government hinted yesterday that it was in possession of intelligence information indicating that plans have been hatched by opposition elements to truncate the general elections by instigating violence across the country. Speaking through the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed, the government noted that having seen the soaring popularity of the current administration, the opposition is bent on truncating the elections with the sole aim of pushing for an interim government. At a press briefing in Abuja yesterday, Mohammed said: ‘’Having realised that their fortunes have dwindled badly ahead of the polls, the desperate opposition is orchestrating widespread violence with a view to truncating the elections, thus triggering a constitutional crisis that could snowball into the establishment of an interim government. ‘’Before you accuse the government of crying wolf, let me say that we have credible intelligence that armed bandits and Boko Haram insurgents have been mobilised to engage in massive attacks and other acts of violence in several states across the country, including Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Benue, Kano, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara,’’ the minister said. Going specific, the minister said that the Benue State-based armed criminal group, led by Terwase Akwaza, also known as Gana, has been commissioned to strike soft targets in Benue, Nasarawa, and Taraba States, while in Kano State, a group of notorious miscreants have been mobilised by some prominent opposition leaders to provoke massive chaos before, during and after the elections. ‘’There is also an international dimension to the evil plan. Some armed mercenaries from Niger Republic have been contracted to attack top government functionaries, including state governors, across the Northwest between now and the elections,’’ Mohammed said. The minister, however, assured Nigerians of the federal government’s commitment to conducting credible, free, fair and peaceful elections, hence it is taking every possible measures to counter ‘’these evil plans by unpatriotic anarchists.’’ He therefore appealed to all Nigerians to be vigilant in the days ahead and urged the media to help in sensitising members of the public on the observed threats, which are capable of disrupting the elections. ‘’The punchline of our long running campaign on security – if you see something, say something – remains relevant, perhaps even more, at this time,’’ he said. Mohammed pledged that all the relevant agencies of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture will work together to ensure that Nigerians are alerted to the dangers posed to the forthcoming elections by ‘’unscrupulous, unpatriotic and desperate characters who will not hesitate to destabilise the country if they cannot achieve their inordinate ambition.’’ Hold APC Responsible, Says PDP In a swift reaction to the federal government’s allegations, the dominant opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) should be held responsible for any escalation of violence in the country. The PDP said that the claim by Mohammed that the opposition is plotting to cause security crisis in the country was baseless because the party and Nigerians were prepared for peaceful elections in defence of the country’s democracy. PDP’s director of Media and Publicity PPCO, Kola Ologbondiyan, told a press conference that the allegations made by the government had brought to light the desperation of the APC ahead of the general elections. Ologbondiyan said that the APC had already displayed a penchant for violence with the outcome of its violent primaries. He continued: “The PDP has noted the address today (yesterday) by the minister of Information,  Alhaji Lai Mohammed, acting on behalf of the Buhari Presidency, that  some groups are being mobilised to stage violent attacks in various  parts of our country. “We have noted the detailing of awareness of the said plots by Alhaji Lai Mohammed, which exposes manifest complicity at very high level. “In the light of this and the already displayed desperation by the APC ahead of the general elections, the PDP calls on Nigerians to hold President Buhari directly responsible for any escalation of violence in our nation. ‘It is imperative to state that the PDP finds the claims of Alhaji Lai Mohammed, irresponsible and ludicrous. It is just a measure for building the ground for framing up and arrest of leading members of the opposition as he has just confirmed our concerns. “Severally, we have alerted the nation that the APC and the Buhari Presidency, having come to the reality of their imminent and disgraceful loss at the polls have embarked on a strategy to foment crisis in our dear nation and blame the opposition. “The PDP, as known to all Nigerians and the world is a party that preaches and functions by peace. We have conducted rallies in many states and geo-political zones without a record of violence. The APC cannot make a similar claim of a peaceful rally in its few attempts at interacting with its members and the public. “Its party primaries ended in violence and multiple deaths. Its rally in Lagos State ended in a fiasco and recorded fatalities. Its presidential candidate is known all over the world for inciting supporters against peace-loving Nigerians, when he said that baboon and dogs will soak in their blood. “On behalf of Nigerians, we thank Alhaji Lai Mohammed for mustering the courage to bring the nefarious plans of the APC to the public. The PDP and Nigerians are prepared for a peaceful election in defence of our democracy,” PDP said. Allegations Plot To Frame Opposition Leaders – CUPP Similarly, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has described the federal government’s accusation as “outrageous and laughable.” It accused the presidency of plotting to frame opposition leaders with spurious allegations. CUPP spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere, said yesterday that the opposition did “not and will not engage in the act of supporting bandits or terror-related activities aimed at disrupting an election that we are destined to win landslide. “The fear of defeat has made the Buhari government to be running from pillar-to- post and throwing baseless allegations with no facts to substantiate, all in a bid to frame the opposition. “Let it be known that the opposition coalition candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar will crack Buhari like cracker biscuits come February 16, 2019 and no amount of fake news or stupid accusation of sponsoring bandits can stop that. “From Bank PHB allegation to sponsoring bandits, it’s obvious the government has run out of ideas and is suffering from mental disorientation,” he said. Ugochinyere stated every accusation the opposition had made against the APC were backed up with facts and evidence that it actually happened. “Lai Mohammed and the APC are making baseless accusations. They should provide the evidence or shut up. “Just as former President Olusegun Obasanjo said in his 16-page address titled: ‘Points for concern and actions’ issued on Sunday, it’s clear evidence that Boko Haram and other security issues worsened under this administration,” CUPP said. According to the coalition, the Boko Haram terrorists’ attacks, farmers and herdsmen clashes, kidnappings and so on, deteriorated under the APC administration. CUPP said that in 2018 alone, thousands of Nigerians across the country were killed through Boko Haram attacks, adding that “the security situation has deteriorated with kidnapping everywhere and Boko Haram terrorists are more in action under this administration and nobody should deceive Nigerians about this.” Just like the PDP, CUPP said that the APC recent bloody rally in Lagos State was a clear indication that they were the ones planning to disrupt the polls with violence, by wreaking mayhem on innocent citizens using bandits and Boko Haram. Ugochinyere urged Nigerians to ignore “the noise of this fake news carrier called Lai Mohammed and heed to the advice of former President Obasanjo. Just like he (Obasanjo) said, If Nigerians fail to take a definitive step by voting Mr. Buhari out of power in next month’s general election, Boko Haram and its Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) may soon take over the entire West African region and make life unsafe not only for Nigerians but Africans in general.”