The Presidency has stated that as a party leader and a candidate on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming elections, President Muhammadu Buhari will campaign for the party and all its candidates. In a statement issued by the senior special assistant media to the President, Garba Shehu, the presidency said President Buhari will support all APC candidates and rally support for their victory at the polls.. Recall that recently,the chairman of the Allied Peoples Movement and the party’s governorship candidate in Ogun State led by Governor Ibikunle Amosun visited the president. The visit has been misinterpreted in some quarters that the President has endorsed the candidature of the Ogun APM governorship candidate, Hon Adekunle Akinlade. However the presidential spokesman said it does not mean that he, as the nation’s leader, will decline courtesy calls or offers of support from citizens including candidates flying the flags of other parties. He said “there is no doubt that the President has no competition here in terms of popularity in the coming elections. But the more support he gets, the wider the margin of victory there will be. “So please let there be no confusion about this. President Buhari is APC. “He will campaign for all APC candidates, but he welcomes support and endorsements”.  … He Has Already Won Presidential Election – Amosun Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun, has declared that President Muhammadu Buhari has already won the February 16 presidential election. He spoke to State House correspondents after meeting with President Buhari alongside Allied Peoples Movement governorship candidate in Ogun, Hon Adekunle Akinlade at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Amosun hinged his assertions on the premise that President Buhari’s work in the past three years speak for him saying he has already delivered on his campaign promises. He also reiterated that the state is going to give President Buhari massive votes that have never been seen in the history of Ogun State Amosun said “It is to come and formally say Happy New Year to Mr President and to reassure him of our unalloyed support. “To all tell him that in the coming elections in the contest of South West Ogun State will not be left behind. We are going to give him massive votes that have never been seen in the history of Ogun State. “That is what we are here to reassure him and of course you see the  Candidate of APM with me yes this not the first time to come and say hello to Mr President but this is a new year and we just think it would be appropriate particularly we all know we are working hand in hand with Mr President to make sure that he wins the state. “As I said the last time that we are not God but i know that Mr President has already won the coming election because his work speaks for him. Mr President doesn’t need to still run around ,his work is everywhere. “Infrastructures are now in place and gradually Mr President is bringing back the middle class the revolution he is bringing to bear in agriculture, all the social safety nets that he is bringing on board, N power, GEEP,  Market money and many others. He specifically noted that people that ordinarily have been running around begging for money are now employers of labour themselves and that is the way to go if we must get it right as a nation. According to him, in all fronts the President has done well, saying  he will still do well and is poised to do more for Nigeria. “He came in with what i called a three pronged promises and he has worked his talk despite all odds. Most of the discussions we had even today centred on Nigeria, how he want everything to be done I was even saying to him that with what you have done you have demonstrated that we have turned the bend and very soon we will get there,” he stated . On his part,    Hon Akinlade said “For us in Ogun State you are aware that our party the APM adopted him as our Presidential candidate as so what we just tried to do today is to reassure him that what we have done still stands and we are working very hard to make sure that he wins in Ogun state. “And what we taking away  is to tell our people that he is doing very well and by God’s grace come February 16 we will vote and he will win that election in sha Allah.”