***Atiku Planning To Ruin Nigeria Economy, Says APC National Chair Members of the Ebonyi State Council of Traditional Rulers today unanimously endorsed  President Muhammadu Buhari and the State Governor, Chief David Umahi with a promise that the President will get the support of many voters in Ebonyi state during the  February 16th Presidential elections in the State. The President who was at the Executive Council Chambers of the Ebonyi State government House at about 11am meet with the State Governor, Chief David Umahi, members of the state executive, traditional rulers and other major stakeholders in Ebonyi polity. President Buhari who expressed satisfaction with the number of federal government projects in the state and the South East zone under his administration noted that the impact of projects are being felt in the State and zone. The Chairman of Traditional Rulers Council, Eze Charles Mkpuma, said Buhari is loved by the people of the because of the robust relationship he has with governor Umahi despite the fact that they belong to different parties adding that this will translate to more votes for the president on election day. Mkpuma who commended Buhari’s determination to tackle the security situation of the country especially in in his efforts in tackling terrorism and fight against corruption, said Buhari was deserving of their votes irrespective of party differences. The monarch who spoke on behalf of 140 traditional rulers in the state said, “We appreciate your dogged determination to maintain utmost security of the country especially your effort in eliminating Boko Haram and fight against corruption which has brought respect and integrity to the country among committee of nations. “We believe that your robust relationship with our son the governor and your loved for him and the state will surely earn you votes in Ebonyi state irrespective of party differences.” Mkpuma, stated the traditional rulers are happy with the leadership of the governor, David Umahi, who has virtually touched every facets of human and infrastructural development of the state, adding “we the traditional rulers like other residents of the state have been rejuvenated and revived by the governor. On the governorship election in the state, the traditional ruler who went down memory lane explain to the President that Umahi deserves a second term for the sake of equity and justice adding that the two former governors before him from other zones also had two tenures.  “Since the inception of democratic dispensation Ebonyi state has operated rotation if the governorship seat among the three senatorial zones. Thus North East had eight years with the same man, central had two terms with same man and south is entitled to eight years with the same man. “It is right and proper that tradition should continue. This is why we have endorsed incumbent governor David Umahi whose performance has been historic and superlative as the sole candidate for 2019 gubernatorial election in Ebonyi state. We are happy with the governor. he has touched every facet of human and infrastructural development of the state”, Mpkuma said. The monarchs later presents 1,000 yams and 1,000 bags of Rice to Mr Buhari. President Buhari, on his part commenced the governor for infrastructural development in the state, assuring that monies spent on the completion of the federal projects will be refunded after the review committee would have audited the projects. According to him, Umahi told him during their short drive to the government house, that he had not received up to 40 percent of the funds spent on federal projects in the state, but assured him the monies will be refunded once the audit committee headed by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, conclude its work. He also told the traditional rulers that his administration’s plans to invest in agriculture was deliberate, recalling that the First Republic was good in agriculture, because the land was abundant and grazing routes developed. According to him, “But subsequently we got drunk with oil money and abandoned what kept us intact. But we are going back to that (agriculture).” He assured the monarchs that the south east will benefit from second Niger Bridge when completed and it will affect you positively in moving goods and services. He urged them that his second return will be of  benefit to them as he will not be seeking a third return. The governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi in his remarks said irrespective of some perceptions, the south east have benefited from federal government projects. He added that the federal government’s agricultural programme have benefited the state immensely which has resulted in mountain of rice. He noted that the state has comparative  advantage in agriculture and solid minerals. “We have fared very well in terms of distribution of projects. We have abundance of salt  and we have found solution on how to develop our salt and we need your help to do that an you gave your approval. The solid mineral development fund is also assisting us to develop our solid minerals. “We have also benefited very much from your agricultural programme and we have comparative advantage in agriculture and solid minerals and we are grateful for the support in this area from you. Our people may be complaining about appointment but I keep saying that  you are a listening president and you are still coming.  The relation with the state and the way you have taken me as your son we are grateful”, Umahi said Meanwhile, The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole during the rally at the Pa Ngele Oruta township stadium said that the plan of the PDP Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is to ruin the economy of the country which he said has been revamped by the President. Comrade Oshiomhole stated that since assumption of office, President Buhari has continued to fight corruption and has also restored the integrity of the country in the international community pointing out that voting the PDP presidential candidate is returning the country to the dark days of corruption and impunity. The APC National Chairman urged the people of the state to vote massively for President Buhari to enable him sustain the laudable achievements in the zone which he said included the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Enugu-Port Harcourt road which was hitherto a death trap.