Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West Senatorial District, yesterday, surrendered himself to the police for investigation in an ongoing case of attempted murder. Dino, in company with some senators, surrendered to the Police after a week siege to his residence in the Maitama area of Abuja. The senator, however, is believed to have surrendered to the police officers after some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lawmakers went to his house to persuade him. Sources at the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad  (FSARS),  said the senator fainted due to asthma attack on the way to the police station for interrogation after he had surrendered to the law enforcement agents. However, after attempts to resuscitate him with his inhaler failed, the police took him to an undisclosed hospital for proper treatment. The police had insisted during the weeklong siege to Melaye’s residence, that its officers would maintain the siege up until the senator was arrested or he surrendered himself for investigation. Subsequently, water and electricity supply to the senator’s residence were cut off to flush him out. The senator is wanted by the police for alleged criminal conspiracy and attempted culpable homicide, committed on 19 July, 2018, when he and his suspected armed thugs allegedly attacked police personnel; shot and wounded Danjuma Saliu, attached to 37 Police Mobile Force (PMF) on stop and search duty along Aiyetoro Gbede, Mopa Road in Kogi State. After the said incident, the police said it sent a letter to the senator through the Clerk of the National Assembly in July 2018 but the invitation was not honoured. Part of the letter read that: “This office is investigating a case of criminal conspiracy and attempted culpable homicide reported against distinguished Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West Senatorial District Zone. “You are kindly requested to inform the said Sen. Melaye to report to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kogi State Police Command through the undersigned on Thursday 26th July, 2018 at 1100hrs to assist Police investigation.”