Serving and former Nigerian leaders will today meet under the prestigious Council of State to address some national issues and some appointments made by President Muhammadu Buhari. Top on the agenda of the meeting holding at the Presidential Villa, Abuja are the new national minimum wage and the ratification of the appointment of the new inspector-general of police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. Adamu was appointed by the president last week to replaced former IGP, Ibrahim Idris, whose tenure expired on January 3, 2019 upon completing the mandatory retirement after 35 years in office. The Council of State is chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as vice chairman. Other members are all former heads of state/presidents, state governors, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), all former Chief Justices of Nigeria (CJNs), the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Already, Adamu’s appointment has been confirmed by the Police Service Commission (PSC) to pave the way for its ratification by the Council of State today. The minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, had said that the federal government and governors of the 36 states of the federation had agreed to meet with the Council of State to resolve the crisis trailing the proposed new national minimum wage for Nigerian workers. The governors had asked for a review of states’ revenue allocation formula to enable them pay the N30,000 minimum wage reached between organised labour and the federal government. President Buhari recently inaugurated an Advisory Technical Committee on the implementation of the proposed N30,000 new wage. The committee headed by renowned economist, Bismarck Rewane, has one month to submit its report on how the federal government can source funds and ways to implement the new salary in a sustainable manner. According to Ngige, the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting held last Thursday did not take definite decision on the minimum wage to allow the Council of State to meet. LEADERSHIP learnt that the conduct of the forthcoming general elections which kicks off with the presidential election on February 16, 2019 would also be deliberated upon by the council. Nigerians are watching out for former president Olusegun Obasanjo’s presence at the crucial meeting. Their eagerness is informed by Obasanjo’s relentless criticisms of the Buhari administration, the latest being on Sunday when he accused the federal government of preparing to rig the polls. In fact, Obasanjo expressed doubt over the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) integrity in respect of the general polls, declaring that Buhari was not ready to conduct free, fair and credible elections and was deceiving Nigerians. In his response, Buhari questioned the credentials of Obasanjo to sit in judgement over his administration, saying the former Nigerian leader lacked the moral right to query the credibility or otherwise of the INEC to conduct credible polls.