The chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption  (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay, SAN, has thrown his weight behind President Muhammudu Buhari’s suspension of Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Nkanu Onnoghen, from office, saying the move is perfectly in tune with the anti-corruption fight of the current administration. Sagay, who spoke exclusively to LEADERSHIP Sunday yesterday, also asserted that the president acted within the ambit of the law in suspending CJN Onnoghen. Apparently reacting to the call by Nigerian Bar Association (NBA)  for the president to reverse Onnoghen’s suspension, citing illegality, Sagay criticised the lawyers’ union, accusing it being corrupt and its members of trying to pervert justice in the CJN’s trial. He said that the President Buhari-led administration had declared an open war against looters as one of its tripod agenda and that Nigerians would have to decide whether or not they are in support of the president. “Corruption is an existential threat to the survival of this country. We are fighting it. Those who thrive in it and those who live on corruption will fight against the rest of the country and we will see on February 16 whether Nigerians support this corrupt looters or whether they want an honest upright government which Buhari represents,” he said. According to him, the CJN through his lawyers were bent on frustrating the case from being heard in order to shield the truth, but that the government was not going to tolerate such agenda. “Were they prepared to have the case heard? These people were running from court to court to get injunction, from Industrial Court to High Court and even to the Court of Appeal, endless courts, all to prevent the case from being heard, all to prevent justice from being done, all to prevent the truth from coming out; who is going to tolerate that? Then they begin to talk of dictatorship, dictatorship of corruption, dishonesty and fraud? We are not going to allow that, ” Sagay said. Speaking on the constitutionality of the president’s action, he explained that the CJN ceased to occupy that position and stood suspended by the ruling of the Code of Conduct Tribunal which the president merely complied with. “The Tribunal gave an order to the president to suspend him. In fact, the Tribunal gave an order to the CJN to step down pending the hearing of the case. And with that order, he automatically left the position of the CJN and became suspended; what the president did was to confirm an already existing legal state of affairs,” Sagay stated. The NBA had, in a statement signed by its president, Paul Usoro (SAN), described Onnoghen’s suspension as an outright coup and called on the president to immediately reverse the suspension to avert a constitutional crisis. But Sagay has told the NBA to rid itself of corruption before contributing to the matter. He said: “The NBA should go and clear its name. It is the same corruption we are fighting, and NBA is obviously very corrupt, so what do you expect them to do? They are fighting the same cause and we are on the other side, trying to survive,” he stated. Responding to those who argued that the president breached protocol in removal of the CJN by side-stepping the National Judicial Council (NJC) whose duty it is to recommend punishment for errant justices, the erudite lawyer explained that it was needless for the president to await NJC’s recommendation on the corruption allegation against Onnoghen since, he said, the constitution had already provided for how the CJN or other heads of court could be removed from office. The legal giant said the NJC did not feature at all in the constitutional provision. “Go and look at the constitution; the NJC does not feature at all on the removal of a Chief Justice, Chief Judge and even president of the Customary Court. So NJC does not feature at all and the NJC cannot remove anybody. When NJC wants somebody out, it still has to recommend to the president or to the governor of a state, so NJC can’t remove anybody. Let’s forget NJC when talking of removal; when it comes to the CJN, NJC does not even feature in the process,” he said. When asked if the NJC ought to have recommended disciplinary action against Onnoghen before the suspension, Sagay said: “You don’t need to recommend anything to the president. Somebody is suspected or believed by the government to be guilty of a breach of the Code of Conduct and the constitution clearly makes a ground for removal, he is then taken before a Tribunal to determine his innocence or his guilt and he himself  – let me emphasise this – he himself admitted guilt and his curie of lawyers who do not believe in justice gather together to prevent the case from being heard; that’s all.” When confronted with the concerns of the United States Embassy in Nigeria, Sagay said the US should refrain from making comments and allow Nigeria deal with its internal matters. “The US embassy expressed concerns? It is not their business,” he said. NASS Leadership Reconvenes Today Over CJN’s Sack Meanwhile, indication has emerged that the joint leadership of the National Assembly would meet today over the suspension of CJN Walter Onnoghen and President Buhari’s subsequent swearing-in of the next most senior justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed as acting CJN. According to a source in the Senate who does not want to be mentioned, Senate President Bukola Saraki and the speaker of the House of Representatives have called for the meeting of the leadership of both chambers of the National Assembly today. The joint leadership meeting is expected to lay a template for the reconvening of both chambers to make a collective resolution on the suspension of the CJN and consequent appointment of acting CJN. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that the Senate had during Thursday’s plenary adjourned sitting until February 19, 2019 after the presidential and National Assembly elections. But the decision to reconvene on Monday or Tuesday followed the suspension of Justice Onnoghen by President Buhari on Friday. While swearing-in Justice Mohammed as acting CJN, President Buhari had explained that the decision to suspend Justice Onnoghen followed an order made by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) last Wednesday where he was standing trial on allegations of false assets declaration. The suspension sparked mixed reactions from individuals and groups within and outside the country. Senate President Bukola Saraki on Friday evening described Justice Onnoghen’s suspension as a “coup against democracy”, saying the President’s action was an over-reach of the powers in the Executive arm of government. This is just as the Peoples Democratic People (PDP) called on the National Assembly to take legislative actions against him, even as it went further to suspend electioneering campaign to protest against the CJN’s suspension. But the Presidency has insisted that there was no political undertone in the suspension of Onnoghen, stressing that it was purely about fighting corruption.  PDP Suspends Campaign In Protest The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council, has suspended its presidential campaign for three days in protest of President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to suspend the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen. The PDP Campaign Council predicated the suspension of its campaign activities in solidarity with Nigerians in their collective rejection of the assault against the country’s democratic order. Describing President Buhari action as a “dangerous and brazen assault on the constitution”, the PDP Campaign Council, in a statement issued in Abuja on Friday night and signed by its Co-chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said that there was no point campaigning to contest in an election whose very basis had been so flagrantly undermined. “The basis for this election is the democracy itself. When democracy comes under this kind of virulent attack, then the election itself becomes superfluous,” the statement said. The PDP Presidential Campaign was scheduled to be in Benue State yesterday but that has now been suspended for a period of 72 hours in the first instance. “In the first instance, we are suspending our campaign for 72 hours. It is our hope that President Buhari will listen to the voice of all lovers of democracy the world over and restore democracy in Nigeria immediately and without qualifications. At the moment, the President has effectively suspended the constitution under whose basis the elections are being contested. “The action of President Buhari represents a constitutional breach and a direct attack on our democracy. This must never be allowed to stand, as there is no way by which democracy can survive under these autocratic tendencies. “We call on all well meaning Nigerians to rise in defence of democracy and save our nation from this imminent slide into tyranny,” he said.  …PDP Is Crying More Than The Bereaved, Says Lai Mohammed In his reaction, however, the minister of information and culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed,  described PDP’s decision to suspend its campaign in protest against the suspension of the CJN as crying more than the bereaved. The minister, in a statement, said the PDP was handling the matter as if Onnoghen was a member of the party. According to a statement signed by his special adviser on media, Segun Adeyemi, the minister described the main opposition party’s action as a face-saving measure, saying PDP’s campaign never gained traction in the first instance. ‘’Which campaign? Their campaign was over a long time ago. There is nothing to suspend. We said it that their campaign had floundered; you can now see. What they are doing now is looking for a face-saving way out of a dead and buried campaign. “And in any event, let’s ask them this question: Is there something that they know that we don’t know? Is there something between them and the suspended CJN? Otherwise, we do not see why they should suspend their campaign anyway, but I can understand that their campaign was bound to end this way,” Alhaji Mohammed said. He added that while Nigerians had been trooping out in large numbers wherever the president’s campaign ship berthed, the PDP support base had been dwindling by the day. On the outcry by some people and organisations over Justice Onnoghen’s suspension, the minister said it was troubling that those crying foul over his suspension had actually ignored the fact that a serving Chief Justice not only amassed millions of dollars in his account, but admitted that he forgot to declare  same in his Assets Declaration Form. “For anybody who read Mr. President’s address yesterday, two things stood out: The first is that additional evidence has just been revealed that the suspended CJN refused to declare millions of dollars in his possession; more worrisome is the fact that when the suspended CJN was confronted with the petition that he failed to declare his assets, he added that it was a mistake, that he forgot. “Now, I would have been a happier person if the same people who are now crying tyranny and dictatorship could really address the issue raised by the president in his address on Friday – that additional investigations have revealed that several millions of dollars were found in the CJN’s account. And when the CJN was confronted with the original allegation, he admitted that he forgot to make full declaration, and that it was a mistake,’’ he said. On the constitutionality of the CJN’s suspension, he faulted those claiming that the president acted outside of the Constitution, adding that in suspending Justice Onnoghen, the President merely carried out an order of a court of competent jurisdiction directing him to suspend the Chief Justice pending the final determination of the cases against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal.  … US, UK, EU Express Concern Over Timing, Electoral Justice The governments of the United States and Britain, as well as the European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM)  yesterday expressed their concern over the suspension of Walter Onnoghen as the Chief Justice of Nigeria, saying such decision taken few days to the country’s general election raises questions about electoral justice. The EU EOM, in a statement, said it was concerned about the process and timing of the suspension of CJN, noting that the Independent National Electoral Commission had invited the union to observe the 2019 general elections. “The EU Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) is very concerned about the process and timing of the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honourable Justice Walter Onnoghen, on 25 January. “With 20 days until the presidential and National Assembly elections, political parties, candidates and voters must be able to have confidence in the impartiality and independence of the judicial system. “The decision to suspend the Chief Justice has led to many Nigerians, including lawyers and civil society observer groups, questioning whether due process was followed,” it said. According to the EU, the timing, just before the swearing in of justices for Electoral Tribunals for the hearing of election-related cases, had also raised concerns about the opportunity for electoral justice. “The EU EOM calls on all parties to follow the legal processes provided for in the Constitution and to respond calmly to any concerns they may have. “The EU EOM will continue observing all aspects of the election, including the independence of the election administration, the neutrality of security agencies and the extent to which the judiciary can and does fulfil its election-related responsibilities,” the statement said. In another statement, the Embassy of the United States said it was deeply concerned by the impact of the executive branch’s decision to suspend and replace the Chief Justice and head of the judicial branch without the support of the legislative branch on the eve of national and state elections. ‘’We note widespread Nigerian criticism that this decision is unconstitutional and that it undermines the independence of the judicial branch. ‘’That undercuts the stated determination of government, candidates and political party leaders to ensure that the elections proceed in a way that is free, fair, transparent, and peaceful – leading to a credible result. ‘’We urge that the issues raised by this decision be resolved swiftly and peacefully in accordance with due process, full respect for the rule of law, and the spirit of the Constitution of Nigeria. ‘’Such action is needed urgently now to ensure that this decision does not cast a pall over the electoral process.” Also the British Government yesterday expressed worry over  Justice Onnoghen’s removal as CJN. The UK government, in  its statement said it had heard a wide range of credible and independent voices, including in the Nigerian legal profession and civil society, who had expressed concern over the constitutionality of the executive branch’s suspension of the chief officer of the judiciary. According to the statement, “The British High Commission expresses serious concern over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “We have heard a wide range of credible and independent voices, including in the Nigerian legal profession and civil society, who have expressed concern over the constitutionality of the executive branch’s suspension of the chief officer of the judiciary. “We respect Nigeria’s sovereign authority and its right to adjudicate on constitutional provisions, but as friends of the Nigerian people, we are compelled to observe that the timing of this action, so close to national elections, gives cause for concern.” The UK government said the move risked affecting both domestic and international perceptions on the credibility of the forthcoming elections. “We, along with other members of the international community, are following developments closely. We encourage all actors to maintain calm and address the concerns raised by this development through due process, demonstrating their commitment to respecting the constitution and the impartial administration of the rule of law. “We further urge them to take steps to ensure that elections take place in an environment conducive to a free, fair and peaceful process.”  Presidency Rejects UK, US Meddling In Nigeria’s Affairs The presidency yesterday responded to the statements credited to the US and UK governments in which they expressed reservations over the suspension of CJN Onnoghen, saying it rejected their interference in the country’s internal affairs. While the presidency said the federal government welcomed their prevailing keen interest and partnerships for successful elections and a peaceful Nigeria, it however rejected any interference or perception  that promotes apprehension, citizen distrust or undermines the transparency and acceptability of the outcomes of Nigeria’s electoral process. According to a statement by the senior special assistant on media to the president, Garba Shehu, Nigeria reserves the right to be insulated from suggestions and/or interference with respect to wholly internal affairs and commends international laws, customs and norms that mandate and require nations and the comity of nations to respect this prerogative. He said Nigeria was confident of its electoral processes and her preparation for the imminent elections, adding that the federal government had supported the electoral umpire, INEC, in both its independence and resources needed to accomplish “our desire and insistence” on free and fair elections. In addition, Shehu said the federal government had ensured the independence of all organs, institutions and arms of government to perform their functions in a manner that is transparent and not lacking in integrity, whether institutionally or by persons within such institutions or organs, and would continue to do so. “Although the question of foreign interference, whether state sponsored, promoted or otherwise, has dominated recent elections and outcomes globally, the federal government assures citizens and the global community that it will fiercely and assiduously promote the will and the right of Nigerians to choose and elect their leaders without pressure or assistance from persons or entities that are not constitutionally empowered to participate in the process. “Citizens are encouraged to confidently exercise their franchise in an orderly manner with the assurance of the federal government of their security during and after the electoral process, as well as the readiness of the security forces to confront any plan or attempt to interfere with or disrupt the process, whether by elements within or from outside the country,” he said .  