Wife of the President, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, yesterday made a major comeback to the political turf as she announced an over 700-member campaign committee for the re-election of her husband, President Muhammadu Buhari on February 16, this year. The committee has about seven directorates, an advisory council and an administrative secretariat. The members of the committee, which political pundits believe may be the largest in Nigeria in recent times, are drawn from the security sector, the military, mainly retired officers, the academics, business, the civil society and youth and women groups. Hajia Buhari will oversee the affairs of the team while wife of the Vice President, Dolapo Osinbajo, All Progressives Congress (APC), governors’ wives, senators, ministers, former governors, head of federal agencies and entertainers are members. The vice president’s wife would co-chair the group while the duo of Mrs. Adejoke Adefulure and wife of Nasarawa State governor, Hajia Mairo Al-Makura, would serve as vice chairpersons for South and North respectively. The national coordinator of the team is Hajia Salamatu Baiwa Umar-Eluma whith Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagu as deputy national coordinator for South and Hajia Binta Muazu, deputy national coordinator for North. The zonal leaders are governors’ wives – Mrs. Rashida Bello (North Central), Mrs. Hadiza Abubakar (North East), Dr. Zainab Bagudu (North West), Mrs. Nkechi Rochas Okorocha (South East), Mrs. Florence Ajimobi (South West), and wife of transport minister, Mrs. Judith Chibuike Amaechi, (South-South). The directorates which are also headed by eminent Nigerians, are logistics (10 members), strategic planning (nine), media and strategic communications (69), operations (196), special duties (24), creativity and entertainment, which has the highest number of 169. The Advisory Council has 99 members, with former inspector-general of police (IGP), Suleiman Abba (rtd) and the comptroller-general of the Nigeria Customs Service (NIS), Col. Hameed Ali, as the notable figures. The administrative secretariat, which is the engine room of the committee, has seven members. In a statement issued yesterday by her media aide, Suleiman Haruna, the president’s wife said that the team will be inaugurated tomorrow by President Buhari at the State House Conference Centre by 2.00pm. Prior to the announcement of the campaign team, Aisha had threatened not to campaign for the president because a cabal had hijacked the administration. But last week, Buhari broke his silence on the matter as he asked those involved in the allegations to provide evidence of any decision the so-called cabal had influenced. In a October 2016 interview with the BBC, Aisha had warned that she might not support her husband’s re-election bid if the cabal continued with their activities. Members of the administrative secretariat are Dr. Hajo Sani, Dr. Nasir Ladan, Zainab Kassim. Rose Audu, Fatima Rafindadi, and Dr. Nasiru Ajoge The notable figures in the Advisory Council are sports minister, Solomon Dalung, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), IGP Suleiman Abba (rtd), Brig. General Lawal Jafaru Isa, General Abubakar Alkali, General Buba Marwa, Senator Ali Modu Sherrif, Chief Orji Uzo Kalu, Dr. Mohammed Mahmud, Dame Pauline Tallen, Hajia Naajatu Mohammed, and Professor Pat Utomi. The directorate of contact and mobilisation is headed by Hon. Nasiru Ali Ahmed wand will be assisted by Barr. Mary Etta. Others include Mrs. Alayangi Sylva, Mrs. Unoma Akpabio, Mrs. Saida Bugaje, Ms. Joy Nunieh, Mrs. Olufunsho Amosun, Hajia Nana Shettima, Mrs. Sherifat Aregbesola and Chief. Kemi Nelson. In the directorate of strategic planning are Dr. Garba Abari as director, Prof. Almustapha Ussiju Medaner (deputy director), Alhaji Wada Maida, Dr. Kamal Mohammed, Mrs. Laureta Onochie, Senator Khaira Gwadabe, Dr. Ibrahim Dauda, Aisha Shettima, and Hajia Hannatu Akilu The spokesman of the directorate of media and strategic planning is Dr. Abdulmumin Jibril, while Barr. Aliyu Abdullahi, Gawat Jubril, Dada Olusegun, CBN Akinsola are among the members. In the directorate of logistics are Mohammed Jibril (director), Alhaji Nasiru Danu, Sarki Mohammed Abba, Mr. Ige Ayeni, Hadi Uba, and Dr. Mahmood Halilu, The directorate of creativity and entertainment, which is the largest, comprises Funke Adesiyan, Hon. Desmond Elliot, Foluke Daramola, Rabiu M. Yaro, Isiyaku Furest, Salisu Dan Baiwa, Musa Mani among others.