The world’s largest single crude distillation column equipment designed for crude oil processing for Dangote Refinery, has arrived in Lagos from China. The Crude Distillation Column is the largest in terms of distilling capacity which is 650 thousand barrels per stream day. Presently, this single train refining column equipment weighs 2250MT; Length, 112.5m; Width, 14.036m; and Height, 13.752m. The weight does not include the weight of the internal trays which is approx. 536 MT. Capt Rajen Sachar, head, Maritime and Ports Infrastructure of Dangote told newsmen during the arrival of the facility in Lagos on Sunday that the equipment is the biggest single-train facility used for refining crude. The refinery equipment which was manufactured by Sinopec in China is the primary unit processor of crude oil into fuels. Sachar said the crude oil consists of various chemical components that have different molecular sizes, molecular weights and boiling temperatures. The crude oil processor took 14 months in construction by Sinopec Company in China and eight weeks to bring it down to Nigeria. “We decided to ship it through vessel from China to avoid being damage and also to avoid traffic congestion if using roads from Apapa,” said Sachar. He added that the crude distillation column works on the principle of fractional distillation leading to separation of various components in the mixture on the basis of their different boiling points. “Crude oil enters the top of the column, where the inlet temperature is 165 deg C gradually increasing to 357 deg C at the bottom of the column. During this passage the crude and its vapours pass through a complex web of internal trays to increase the contact time and surface area within the column with the hot vapours travelling upwards through bubble caps which allow the vapour to pass through the tray with the cooler liquid flowing downward the column. “When the vapour reaches the height within the column where its boiling point is equal to the temperature of the column at that height it condenses to form a liquid. The liquid then collects on various trays in the column at differing heights from where it is extracted out of the column. “It is therefore critical to control the heat load of the column to optimize the crude crack. These separated fractions are mainly middle distillates namely, Naphtha, Jet Fuel, Kerosene, Gasoline and Gas Oil,” Sachar added. The company’s captain said that the refinery when completed will produce Euro-V quality gasoline and diesel, as well as jet fuel and polypropylene. He said that the crude column will enhance the economy of Nigeria and all neighbouring countries in Africa by making available refined petroleum products meeting world standards emission norms of Euro 5 and Euro 6. The captain said the strategic location of Nigeria in West Africa will help in reducing the transportation costs of these fuels to other countries in the African subcontinent thereby providing cost effective high grade petroleum products to them.