The Senate yesterday gave the Department of State Services (DSS), the office of the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubarkar Malami, Counsel for   the detained #Revolutionnow Campaigner, Omoyele Sowore to submit a written testimony within 24-hours over the alleged invasion of a Federal High Court in Abuja by security agents. Others expected to submit the written testimony are: the Executive Secretary, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Barr Tony Ojukwu, Office of the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court and the presiding Judge at the time of the alleged invasion, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu. The order was given by the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters during a public hearing on the alleged invasion of the court. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Right and Legal Matters, Michael Opeyemi, who gave the directive, said all parties must submit a written account of what happened within 24-hours. The 24- hours given elapsed today, Friday. Opeyemi who said they were unable to proceed with the scheduled investigative hearing following the death of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, added that the testimonies of the parties involved in the alleged invasion of the court should be in writing. “We are not able to proceed with the hearing because we lost one of our colleagues yesterday. He was on the floor of the Senate two days ago. We need to show concern for the departed soul. “Therefore, avail us with memorandum within 24 hours. We have contacted the Office of the Chief Judge of the High Court to give us perspective of what happened including the presiding judge. We will like to have the memoranda before the close of work on Friday,” Opeyemi said. Present at the public hearing were the Director General DSS, Yusuf Bichi, the Solicitor General of the Federation, Dayo Apata and representative of the lawyer to Omoyele Sowore, Mr Femi Falana, SAN. It would be recalled that DSS operatives allegedly invaded a Federal High Court in Abuja to re-arrest publisher of SaharaReporters, Omoyele Sowore, few hours after he was released on bail. But the issue which elicited reactions from several Nigerians, prompted the Senate to mandate its committee on Judiciary, Human Right and Legal Matters to investigate and unravel the mystery behind the issue.