Golden Ball winner at the 1987 U-17 World Cup, Philip Osondu has passed after a brief illness, at the age of 48, in Belgium.
The former Nigeria wonderkid felt indisposed and visited the hospital to be examined, and subsequently passed away. Osondu played a pivotal role as the Golden Eaglets placed second in Canada ‘87 – and was subsequently named as the tournament’s best player ahead of Cote d’Ivoire’s Moussa Traore. He was also a member of the Nigeria U-20 squad that were runners-up at the 1989 U20 Fifa World Cup in Saudi Arabia. His former national team colleague, Mutiu Adepoju took to social media to express his sadness over Osondu’s passing.
Philip Osondu was my teammate at Saudi 89 FIFA U20 World Cup, where we helped Nigeria finish in second position. So, shattered about the news of his passing. Dear Lord, do grant him eternal rest and console his family “Philip Osondu was my teammate at Saudi 89 FIFA U20 World Cup, where we helped Nigeria finish in second position. So, shattered about the news of his passing. Dear Lord, do grant him eternal rest and console his family #RipOsondu,” Adepoju tweeted. Before drawing the curtain on his football career, he featured for El Kanemi Warriors, RSC Anderlecht, Racing White Daring Molenbeek, La Louviere, Union Saint Gillis, Diedem Sport and FC Merchtem 2000. The attacker was seen as an emerging football talent and was transferred to Anderlecht that was a promising team. A year later, the 18-year-old striker made his debut at the highest level in an away match against Germinal Ekeren in 1989 playing under coach Aad de Mos. However, there was a lot of competition at Anderlecht with players like Luc Nilis, Luis Oliveira, Marc Van Der Linden and Gert Verheyen which made Osondu appear barely at the games. Between 1990 and 1992 the Nigerian was also loaned to neighbors RWDM. When RWDM got Osondu, Coach Hugo Broos gave him more playing opportunities. For the first time in the First Division, he also found the back of the goal. Osondu scored his first goal in a 4-1 win over Beerschot VAV. A year later Broos left for Club Brugge and was succeeded by Ladislav Novák. This led to fewer opportunities to play for Osondu, which in the summer led to his return to Anderlecht. In 1994 Osondu moved to second division club La Louvière, where the small and technically gifted striker scored five times in twenty matches. A season later he swapped La Louvière during the winter break for Union Saint Gillis, where he completed the rest of the season. Afterwards he played several years for Diegem Sport and FC Merchtem 2000. Osondu, who was regarded as a great talent and also received high praise as a youth international, could never fulfill his potential in Belgium. He is often cited as one of many young Africans who went too early to go abroad.