The Nigeria Farmers Group and Cooperative Society (NFGCS) has declared its readiness to commence supply and distribution of no less than 100 trailers of rice across the country in the next few weeks. This, according to the group, followed a strategic partnership initiative and agreement made with farmers and stakeholders in the rice farming, production and distribution chain. The effort, according to the group, was geared towards bridging the gap following the increased in demand for local rice due to border closure, Christmas and the New Year festivals. Nation Coordinator of NFGCS, Mr. Retson Tedheke, while addressing journalists in the side line of the group’s 2nd annual general meeting after a farm tour with investors at weekend, said “with the closure of border by the federal government has made it possible for rice farmers to take the lead in going into massive rice production to compete favourably with foreign rice farmers”. According to Mr Retson, “we are moving from producing 2000 bags of 25kg of rice daily to 10000 bags in the 1stQ of 2020”. He said this has become possible due to border closure, partnership with stakeholders in the sector, big and small, all contributing in their capacities to meet demands and couple with the upgraded milling plants, it has become very clear that production capacity is growing faster than earlier envisaged. “What we have successfully done in the last few weeks is that we offtake and aggregate paddy rice from big and small scale rice farmers across the country, because what we currently produce cannot meet the demands by our distributors”. On how to boost production both for local consumption and for exports as projected by the federal government, Mr Retson said the goverment must be willing to adentify with real farmers and make credit facilities available to them with ease and at the right time of the season. He also stressed on the need for goverment to provide the enabling environment for farmers to encourage production and returns. “Most of these variables need to be solved so that we can maximize the potentials that are available. The goverment must be ready to provide the loan as at when due and put the necessary infrastructures in place for us. We need power