Nasarawa State’s 2020 budget recently presented to the State House of Assembly by Governor Abdullahi Sule raises hope for accelerated development of the state.  DANJUMA JOSEPH reports. Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa state recently presented a budget of N100.5 billion for 2020 to the state House of Assembly for approval. Sule, while presenting the budget tagged “Budget of Inclusive Development”, said it was in line with his administration’s policy anchored on prudence, transparency and accountability. “I hereby present the 2020 appropriation bill of N100.5 billion to you for your consideration and approval,” he said. He said the budget was made up of N56.8 billion recurrent expenditure and N43.8 billion capital expenditure. He explained that Education, Science and Information Communication Technology ( ICT) got the highest allocation of N26.3billion, followed by works with N18 billion. Sule said government and general administration was allocated N16.8billion; finance, investment and trade got N11billion; health N9.7billion, while Agriculture and Water Resources was allocated N2.44billion. He assured the people that the budget would be used to complete all ongoing projects, provide social services, youth empowerment among others. The governor urged the lawmakers to give the budget speedy passage to enable government execute developmental projects across the state. On his part, the Speaker of the House, Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, while receiving the budget assured of its speedy passage to enable people enjoy dividends of democracy. “I therefore call on all government Agencies, Ministries and Parastatals (MDAs) to cooperate with the house so that the budget will be passed in the shortest possible time,” he said. The speaker also assured the governor of the legislature’s commitment towards partnering with the executive to take the state to the next level of development. Meanwhile, the assembly  immediately suspended its rules to sit the next day  for second reading of the 2020 Appropriation Bill of N100.5 billion. Hon.Tanko Tunga (APC-Awe North), who is the Majority Leader of the Assembly, said this while addressing newsmen after the governor had presented the budget during plenary. He said that quick passage of the budget would go a long way in ensuring speedy development in the state. “You heard what the Speaker has said during the budget presentation that by the grace of God, the assembly will pass the 2020 budget before the end of this year. “You can also see that we don’t sit on Thursday and Friday but we have suspended our House Rule to sit tomorrow, to allow the budget scale second reading,” he said. In the meantime, the State Government said it will borrow N8.2 billion to finance the deficit of the N100.5 billion 2020 budget recently presented to the state House of Assembly by the Governor. Commissioner of  Finance and Planning, Haruna Adamu Ogbole, disclosed this while giving a breakdown of the 2020 budget christened ‘Budget of Inclusive Development’. According to the commissioner, the 2020 budget which has a marginal increase of N5.6 billion only; representing 6.0 per cent increase as compared to the 2019 budget, would also be funded from the Statutory Revenue Allocation of N41 billion. He added that the budget would also be funded from anticipated N1.08 billion Opening balance, N10.5 billion Value Added Tax (VAT), while  N26.34 billion would come from Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and N10.46 billion would be raised from Aid and Grants. Ogbole maintained that the sum of N49.4 billion equivalent of 49.20 per cent of the budget size, had been earmarked for recurrent expenditure, while N43.7 billion; which is 43.56 per cent of the total budget size, was set aside for capital expenditure. He stated further that the sum of N7.2 billion, about 7.24 per cent is the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the 2020 budget. According to Ogbole,  other projects earmarked in the 2020 budget include construction,  rehabilitation of public buildings, provision and rehabilitation of water schemes, equipping and upgrading of the hospital across the state, among others. “Government intends to complete and embark on the following projects: completion of Kwandare – Keffi road, township roads, inter-city roads, Lafia Airport and dualisation of Shendam – Akurba road” he said.