The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) has thrown its weight behind the federal government’s decision to suspend supply of fuel to border towns. The union in a communiqué at the end of its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting commends, “The ongoing efforts of the federal government through the ‘Operation White’ to nip in the bud the recurring cases of smuggling of fuel across the border towns of the country.” The communiqué signed by PENGASSAN president, Comrade Ndukaku M. Ohaeri and general secretary,    Comrade Lumumba Okugbawa respectively, said the union believes that the stringent approach the federal government employed by severing supply of fuel to the border towns was the right decision and should be supported by all meaningful Nigerians in order to bail out the country from the claws of economic monsters. The union said Nigeria has been said to be losing N2billion to fuel smuggling, with attendant severe implications to the economy, which is currently gasping for survival. Reacting to the PIB, the union said the non-passage of the PIB has denied Nigeria lots of benefits that could have accrued to it from the hydrocarbon industry. It stated that Nigeria has lost so much revenue that could have added to the government coffers as existing investments are stalled and new investments are taken outside the shores of the land where returns are guaranteed. It stated that, “Many countries that started the process of having legislation in place for their oil and gas industry after Nigeria started its, have completed the process and are now reaping the fruits of proactive laws.” “The NEC-in-Session therefore calls on the government to halt the uncertainty concerning the conclusion of the process by signing the PIGB into law first and completing the other aspects of the Bill for meaningful progress in the industry.”  It reads further, “NEC-in-Session notes with cautious optimism, the recent signing into law of the amended Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Amendment Act, which translates to the country receiving its fair, rightful and equitable share of income from the envisaged increase in oil and gas revenue. The NEC-in-Session expects that this will in turn lead to infrastructural growth and creation of more jobs if the proceeds accruing from it are judiciously used, as the country has suffered from the non-review of this Act since its enactment approximately 20 years ago.  “The NEC-in-Session therefore calls for a holistic implementation and strict adherence to the contents of the Act for our collective benefit. On the other hand, the NEC-in-Session also calls on the federal government to work out incentives including waivers for organisations and companies who despite the review of the PSC Act, continue to invest in our deep water, especially new investments.” 