All is now set for the 2019 Edition of the Nigerian Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) Auto Awards slated to hold December 17 2019 at the prestigious Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Expected at the awards ceremony as special guests are Jelani Aliyu, the director-general of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Boboye Oyeyem, corps marshal of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC. It will also provide the opportunity for guests to network. The Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation is expected to honour the event. Other very important dignitaries expected at the event are chief executives and other decision influencers of auto companies, insurance firms, auto dealers and distributors including marketers of automobile related products and services. According to Mike Ochonma, chairman of Nigerian Auto Journalists Association, everything has been put in good shape to ensure that week’s Tuesday Awards award ceremony turns out to be a successful and remarkable experience. Winners at the different award categories were carefully scrutinized by members of the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association. With the theme, “EV in Nigeria- What Hope For The Future”, the historic event with a very important global recognition among automakers and others in  aftermarket  is organised by automotive journalists in the country with the aim of recognising corporate stakeholders across different segments in the industry. Those to be honoured, according to the organisers include auto-based organisations and other automotive products and ancillary products like tyre brands , lubricants and individuals that are adjudged to have relatively stood out among other competitors in their respective segments in the country’s  auto industry within the year. Nigeria auto awards which is held annually and recognised in every part of the world is adjudged by industry stakeholders as the only respected and most-valued industry event in the country that involves all the motoring journalists in Nigeria drawn from the print, electronic and online media in the voting process. There are various accord categories while the high point of the awards night is the awards in the Car-Of-The-Year (COTY) award category. Others are awards in the Luxury Car of the Year, Heavy Duty Truck of The Year, Most Innovative CEO of the Year, Auto, Pick-up of the Year, Showroom of the Year and many others. New additions to the awards segments this year include the Fastest Growing Auto Brand of the year and Auto Rally of The Year and Online Auto Marketing Platform of The Year.