The largely agrarian community Toro in Bauchi State, for more than five hours, swapped its sleepy outlook for carnival-like atmosphere, complete with loud, high-pulsating music. The occasion was the formal handover of prizes to winners of the ongoing Globacom promo in their community in Toro. The venue was the large playground in front of the traditional chief of the community, opposite the headquarters of the Toro local government council. The Sarkin Gadan, Toro, Bauchi State, Mallam Yusuf Azi, was there in person to provide support for senior Globacom officials who came to town to hand over the prizes as promised by the company. Also there were the Hardon Toro, Alhaji Mohammed Inuwa and the renowned northern-based comic, Funky Mallam, whose real name is Saeed Mohammed. Prizes on display included tricycles, industrial sewing machines, grinding mills and generators. Memories were made on this bright day as happy winners took turns to collect their prizes and express their gratitude to Globacom. By far the most outstanding testimony of the day was by Ganiyu Abass, a visually-challenged auto electrician who won a grinding mill in the promo.
According to Abass, he was doing well as an auto-electrician and also a Fuji musician until tragedy struck a couple of years ago, when he discovered he had a problem with his sight. He went to the hospital where he learnt that it was a major problem, and he commenced a battle to save his sight. In no time, he lost the battle and became completely dependent on people around him. He could no longer go out to fend for himself and his young family. But for the assistance of his 10 -year-old son, Abdulateef, who piloted him around when he had an urgent need to go out, he would have been marooned all day inside his room. His wife could not add that to the herculean task of providing for the needs of the family through her petty trade. Speaking further, Abass said he was almost going into depression, but he kept faith that one day, things would take another turn for the better for him.
Abass, who can conversed freely in Yoruba, Hausa and English, said fortune smiled on him one day and he got an unexpected call from a Globacom customer care representative, informing him that he had won a grinding mill in a Globacom promo. “I thought it was a prank, but the lady insisted she was serious,” Abass said, adding that he hurriedly organised for someone to take him to Globacom office to confirm the news. He said joy filled his heart the moment he reached Jos office of Globacom and was assured that it was not a prank, and that he indeed had won a prize. “I have got a new lease of life. With this grinding mill that Globacom has given me, my family has a new stream of income. My wife will add it to her petty trading. At the very least the cost of buying drugs for my eye condition will be taken care of,” he said. An appreciative Abass insisted on being given the microphone to sing a song of praise for Globacom for giving him another shot at life. He said his wife who is a food vendor would save the money she used to spend on grinding food ingredients and now the grinding mill would at least provide money for him to take care of his drugs and medical bills. Also striking was the story of a couple who had been dreaming of setting up a fashion design business. The wife, Fatima Kabir, who is currently observing the one year mandatory national youth service, said she had always had the dream of sewing wedding gowns. Her husband, Murtala Kabir, an engineer, is with the civil service and does not have enough funds to set up a shop for his wife.
In her testimony, Fatima said she was sent money regularly to recharge her phone by her husband and she usually used this to buy Glo airtime. By some stroke of luck, the wife won an industrial sewing machine that would now make it possible for her to actualise her dream of becoming a seamstress. Other winners included Thairu Abubakar, a driver and Onyekwelu Chinenye Doris, a University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) accountancy graduate, who took home a tricycle each. Elated Abubakar said, “I am a driver. I live in Toro local government area of Bauchi State. I will give the Keke to my son to use for daily business, while I continue my driver’s job. We will continue to patronise Glo.” The second tricycle winner, Onyekwelu Chinenye Doris, said the prize was the best thing to happen to her. She said she would use it for transportation business.
Also at the ceremony, Abdusalam Musa Mamman, collected a grinding mill, while Abdulfatai Shittu, collected an electricity generator. The previous Monday, some 50 winners had been presented their prizes at the Jos Terminus Market. Jos is the seventh city to host the prize presentation exercise which has been held in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Kano, Onitsha and Enugu in the last few weeks. In all, hundreds of winners had won tricycles, industrial sewing machines, grinding mills and generators across the country.
Launched in October, the Recharge and Win Big Promo popularly known as My Own Don Beta, is an empowerment promo packaged by national telecommunications company, Globacom. Speaking at the occasion, Glo regional manager, Primary Sales, North East 1, Mr. Jide Ofor, urged Globacom subscribers to continue to avail themselves of the opportunity presented by the promo to earn new streams of income. “At Globacom, we have kept our promise by delivering the prizes won by our lucky customers before the media, the general public and representatives of regulatory bodies such as the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC).” He said Globacom wanted everyone to have access to the benefits of the promo, adding that this was why the entry threshold was pegged at N200.