The Committee of the Ministers of Finance and Governors of Central Banks of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on single currency for ECOWAS is currently deliberating on key proposals of the proposed currency in Abuja. The Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors conference is billed to also deliberate on the symbol of the currency, proposal for the name of the central bank of ECOWAS, term of reference for the location of the ECOWAS Central Bank. The committee had adopted ECO as the name for the proposed single currency for the region. Speaking at the conference yesterday, Nigeria’s Finance Minister, Zainab Ahmed, urged the committee members to dispassionately engage in honest discussion to come up with a befitting name and a deserving occasion for the future of ECOWAS Central Bank, bearing in mind the terms of reference and the conditionality outlined by our working group. “We should be able to choose a name that is outstanding and supportive enough to drive these aspirations; an advocacy that guarantees trust and posses a measure of solidarity as well as our collective strength,” Mrs Ahmed stated. The committee is expected to present its report on the macroeconomic conventions report of ECOWAS for the first half of 2019, the state of the preparedness for the launch of the monetary union, and the status of implementation of the revised roadmap activities, to an expanded ECOWAS Commission meeting of heads of states next year. Substantial progress has been achieved on the plan to have a single currency for the region. The meeting is a critical one. The committee on the single currency is expected to present its report on key areas that include microeconomic convention report, the status of the implementation of the revised roadmap activities, adoption of exchange rate regime, the location of the ECOWAS Central Bank, the adoption of ECO as the name of the proposed currency, the operating rule of the West African market integration commission, among others. President of the Commission of ECOWAS, Jean-Claude Kassi Brou said, “despite these achievements, we all know much work needs to be done to achieve the ultimate objective of a strong monetary union, which can serve the economic and social development of our legion and our people.” He noted the vulnerability of the regional economy to external shocks. “We need to collectively work in an adequate manner to deal with our common challenges, by ensuring we remove all the difficulties. Mrs Ahmed, who said Africa and the global community is currently at a moment of gross expectations, noted that the decision that would be taken at the conference will have direct implication on the monetary policies and economic management of the various ECOWAS countries. “Our data must be very factual and be a real reflection of what happens in our economies,” she added. Ahmed expressed doubt as to whether the recent momentum gathered in the process can be maintained or whether the political leaders’ commitment will be sustained.