The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar has said that celebrating festivities like Christmas with frontline troops fosters comradeship and bridge the gap caused by their inability to visit their families. Abubakar at Christmas lunch with frontline troops in Yola yesterday said, the interaction is aimed at fostering comradeship and commended their efforts in the fight against insurgency. The CAS, represented by Air Taskforce Commander, Operation Lafiya  Dole, Air Commodore Precious Amadi, urged troops to  redouble their efforts, at ensuring total elimination of terrorists in the region. “Am delighted to be with you this afternoon, to celebrate Christmas with all of you. “We must redouble our efforts, to completely rid the North-East of terrorists for the people to carry out their business in peace and harmony. “I must commend the Commanders in Yola and their personnel, for efforts in ensuring that activities of the units is running smoothly. “NAF at large appreciate your efforts at restoring normalcy and peaceful coexistence in the North-East especially in Adamawa. “It has been my tradition since the beginning of my administration to identify with my officer and men during festive period especially those at the frontline,” he said. Earlier, Commander, 135 Base Services Group, Air Commodore Muhammed Yusuf, in his remarks, lauded the CAS for creating time to be with the troops in the frontline. Yusuf noted that, the Base Service Group, would continue to play its role in fighting against insurgency. He assured that, NAF in the state is committed to ensuring the country is safe for people to go about their normal businesses. “We thank CAS for providing necessary requirements to enable us discharge our duties effectively in the state,” he said. Gov Ahmad Fintiri lauded the force for its commitment in keeping North-East region safe for people to sleep well. The governor represented by the secretary to the state government (SSG) Engr Bashir Ahmad explained that, without the commitment of the force, government could not render meaningful service to the people. He assured government’s support to the personnel  and facilities in the barracks. He pointed out “NAF kept this part of the nation safe for us to sleep well. Without the commitment of NAF, government could not be able to render services within a short time in office. Government will extend support to all barracks in the state.”