The federal government has charged major operators in the nation’s sugar sub-sector to remain faithful to the implementation of the Backward Integration Programme (BIP) for the sector signed in 2013, stressing that a greater measure of commitment is required from key stakeholders in the sector in order to sustain the gains so far recorded and to make the industry globally competitive in line with the economic diversification agenda of government. The call was made by the executive secretary of the National Sugar Development Council (NSDC), Dr. Latif Busari at the weekend when the minister of industry, trade and investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, toured major sugar project sites across the country. The minister was accompanied on the visit by the president, Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; chairman, BUA Group, Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu and chairman, Flour Mills of Nigeria, Mr. John Coumantaros. Busari, who restated government’s readiness to build a globally competitive sugar industry that would guarantee huge return on investments for all players, attain self-sufficiency, create jobs, generate electricity and derive other benefits of the sugarcane value chain as contained in the Nigeria Sugar Master Plan (NSMP), said the Council would continue to provide all necessary policy supports and regulatory assistance for the sector to thrive. While commending the three major investors in the sector, Flour Mills Nigeria, BUA Sugar Refinery and Dangote Sugar Refinery for their huge investments in the sector amidst operational and climatic challenges, Busari wants the operators to speed up work across their factories, noting that Nigerians were anxious to see that these factories became operational in view of their huge economic impact on the country and benefit to all interested parties. According to Busari, “Government is very much interested in building a globally competitive sugar sector that would make Nigeria a net exporter of the commodity. We are not going to relent in our determination to attain self-sufficiency in sugar production as contained in the Nigeria Sugar Master Plan. It is gratifying to note that overall investments in the sugar sector of the national economy have risen to N157 billion in the last six years that the NSMP came on board, interestingly, more investors are coming in. “As you already know, President Muhammadu Buhari had in March 2018 commissioned a multi-billion naira sugar project in Sunti, Niger State owned by the Flour Mills of Nigeria. Also, the BUA Group is working hard at its BIP site in Lafiagi, Kwara State. The project would be ready for commissioning by the last quarter of 2020. Same effort is being replicated by the market leader, the Dangote Group at its two sites in Numan, Adamawa State and Tunga in Nasarawa State. Both projects form the BIP sites of the group. So, in all, though a bit late, I believe we are on track, and we will not relent in our resolve to grow our sugar industry.” On the supervision of the BIP projects, Busari said government had in its wisdom set up two strategic bodies saddled with the responsibility of monitoring progress in the sector. “We have the Sugar Roadmap Implementation Committee (SURMIC), which comprised relevant ministries, departments and agencies of government as well as the Sugar Industry Monitoring Group (SIMOG) which comprised three major sugar investors; FMN, BUA and Dangote. These are the two monitoring organs for the BIP. “It is therefore gratifying that the honourable minister has also decided to monitor the activities of the various factories and see things for himself, beyond what we have told him in our briefings. Visiting all these sites accompanied by the owners of the major projects is actually unprecedented.”
Busari also said the minister’s visit was an indication of government’s commitment to achieving self-sufficiency in sugar production