Justice Rilwan Aikawa of the Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday ordered the initial forfeiture of two houses in Ilorin, Kwara State belonging to former Senate President, Bukola Saraki to the federal government. The properties affected by the order are designated as Plots No. 10 and No. 11 Abdulkadir Road, GRA, Ilorin, Kwara State. Justice Aikawa gave the temporary order after entertaining an ex-parte application filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The anti-graft agency had submitted in the application that it uncovered monumental fraud perpetrated in the treasury of the Kwara State Government between 2003 and 2011, when Saraki was the governor of the state. The EFCC had anchored its case against the former Senate President on Section 17 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act No. 14, 2006. One of the operatives of the Commission, Olamide Sadiq, who deposed to an affidavit filed in support of the ex parte application, claimed that the move for the forfeiture of the houses followed the findings of the EFCC after investigation. Sadiq also alleged that the EFCC also received “a damning intelligence report, showing monumental fraud perpetrated in the treasury of the Kwara State Government between 2003 and 2011.” He further averred that, “Whilst the investigation was ongoing several fraudulent transactions were discovered. “I know for a fact and verily believe that our investigation has revealed the following mind-boggling findings, among others: “That between 2003 and 2011, Dr Olubukola Abubakar Saraki was the Executive Governor of Kwara State. “That whilst he held the aforementioned position, the common pattern was that after payment of monthly allocation by the federal government to the Kwara State Government, a cumulative sum of not less than N100million will be deposited into the Kwara Government House account. “That upon the payment of the said N100million, same will, in turn, be withdrawn in cash by one Mr Afeez Yusuf from the Kwara State Government House, Ilorin’s account in bits and brought to the Government House,” Sadiq stated. The anti-graft also claimed that it believed that Saraki developed the two properties with proceeds of unlawful activities. While moving the application, EFCC counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, urged Justice Aikawa to order the temporary forfeiture of the houses to the federal government. After granting the order as prayed, Justice Aikawa directed the EFCC to publish the temporary forfeiture order in a national newspaper. The judge then adjourned the matter till December 17 to enable anyone interested in the properties to appear before him to show cause why the properties should not be permanently forfeited to the government.  . . . It’s An Abuse Of Court Process, Says Saraki Former Senate President, Dr  Abubakar Bukola Saraki has reiterated his position that the application to the Federal High Court, Lagos, for interim forfeiture order on his Ilorin home by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is an abuse of the court process and a violation of a subsisting order of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Saraki, in a statement last night by his special adviser on media and publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, noted that the Federal High Court in Abuja presided by Justice Taiwo Taiwo had given an order “restraining the respondents (Commission) by themselves, their subordinates, agents, servants, or privies howsoever, from seizing, impounding, taking over, confiscating or otherwise forfeiting the Applicant’s (Saraki) right to own and peacefully enjoy any of his assets and properties”. “The EFCC’s claim that the Ilorin property was built by any proceed of fraud is outrightly false. The fact is that the Ilorin property was built partly by the Kwara State Government pursuant to the Third Schedule of the Governor and Deputy Governor (Payment of Pension) Law 2010 while Dr. Saraki personally funded the remaining cost of the building. There are existing letters from the Office of the Head of Service of Kwara State notifying the former Governor (Saraki) of the State Government’s compliance with the State Pension for Governor’s law and the one indicating his intention to bear the cost of the additional expenditure that will arise from building the property to his desired taste dated 25th January 2012 and 8th February 2012 respectively. “The construction of the building did not commence until the last few weeks of Dr. Saraki’s tenure as Governor and the bulk of his contribution to the funding were made with cheques. Where cash was involved, this was mainly in 2012 and 2013, more than a year after he had left office as Governor. So, where is the claim that the money for the construction of the house fraudulent obtained from Kwara State Government coming from? It should also be noted that the land on which the house is built is not a government allocated land.”  