Facts have emerged on why President Muhammadu Buhari turned down the nomination of Mr. Emmanuel Gakko, as a federal judge after the expiration of his tenure as CR. About a year ago, shortly before the expiration of his tenure, Gakko applied to become a judge of the federal high court but his application was turned down by the president after security report. Sometime in mid June 2018, a press release issued by the National Judicial Council (NJC), indicated that nine persons were approved for appointment by the president as judges of the Federal High Court. However, the president did not approve Gakko’s nomination as a Federal Judge for the slot of Yobe State. In a document titled, “Re: Appointment of Justices of the Court of Appeal, Judges of the Federal High Court and Judges of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja dated June 12, 2018 and addressed to the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN)” which was obtained by our correspondent, President Buhari declined approval for five nominees who were to be appointed to the Appeal Court, the FCT High Court and the Federal High Court where Gakko’s name came second on the list of “Justice and Judges not Cleared.” Consequently, Buhari advised the CJN: “You are requested to, in line with your procedures, forward names of suitable replacements that are fit for appointment to these positions for my consideration and approval.” Gakko has been due to vacate the seat as the Chief Registrar of the court but still remain in office. Investigations revealed that those next in line are already complaining that what is duly meant for them should not be denied. Recall that Gakko served under the administration of Justice Ibrahim Ndahi Auta. When Auta left office in 2017, he continued under Justice Abdul Kafarati. Also, a group, Young Advocate Against Corruption (YAAC) has called on the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Mohammad Tanko, the National Judicial Council,(NJC), FJSC and the Presidency to urgently look into the cases of some Judges and Registrars that were not cleared by the President but still holding sensitive public offices. In statement made available to newsmen, the director general of the group, Danjuma Lamido, said that it was inappropriate for those who were not cleared to still hold unto public offices. The group listed the Judges and Registrars to include: Hon. Justice D. Z Senchi – Court of Appeal; Emmanuel Gakko – Judge of the Federal High Court; Hauwa Shehu Aliyu – Judge of the High Court, FCT; Khadija Mounir Gwarzo – Judge of the High Court, FCT and Terere Vivianne Nnamani – Judge of the High Court, FCT. The group further issued a 7-day ultimatum for Gakko to tender his resignation letter. “Failure for the Chief Registrar of the Federal High Court of Nigeria, Mr. Emmanuel Gakko to resign within 7 days, we shall lead ‘a million man march’ against him until he steps down from the position he is currently holding’’, Lamido said.