Ownership of the land bordering the Civil Service Clinic in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital has officially reverted to the state government. The land located adjacent to the late Dr Olusola Saraki’s Ilofa, GRA’s residence had served as Saraki’s campaign headquarters for decades. The 57th birthday of the immediate past Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki was held in the facility “Charity House” within the expansive land on December 19, 2019. The Chief Press Secretary to governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Rafiu Ajakaye announced the government’s recovery of the land in a statement yesterday. He added that a new secretariat complex would be erected on the land next year. He explained that the land was originally meant for government secretariat and parking space of the Civil Service Clinic but was unlawfully allocated to a private firm Asa Investments Limited without any record of payment to the state government. No certificate of occupancy was ever issued in favour of the firm, he added. The state government, according to Ajakaye had bought the land to house the civil service clinic, its parking space, and a secretariat. He said the government has now made provisions for the secretariat in the 2020 budget, although its construction will spill over to 2021. “Hundreds of civil servants still operate from rented apartments at a huge cost to the government. The new secretariat, once completed in 2021, will definitely go a long way to end this unhealthy trend as well as provide a more conducive and decent working environment for government workers,” the statement added. “Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has signed a constitutional instrument withdrawing the allocation of plots of land 1, 3 and 5 to the firm, asserting that the said land was unlawfully appropriated contrary to the purpose for which it was meant. “The governor’s decision followed a resolution of the State House of Assembly urging him to reclaim the land because it was arbitrarily taken over in the 1990s without any evidence of payment by the Asa Investment Limited, even though the land was meant for public use. “The Governor noted in the revocation order that the land was originally meant for the construction of another phase of the Kwara State Civil Service Secretariat and a parking space for both the civil service clinic and the Secretariat,” he added.