The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps said the driving schools in Nigeria have failed the country as bribery and shortcuts have marred their activities. The Corps marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, who stated this at “Ember months stakeholders forum with Federal Competition & Consumer Protection Commission, FCCPC, on Friday, in Abuja, said it has become worrisome that majority of the 1160 driving schools across the country have been so messed up to a point, where people just pay money and collect the driving certificate after one month without properly going through the rudiments of driving. Speaking further on some of the challenges facing the FRSC in discharging their duties, the Corps marshal lamented extortion in issuance of driver’s license and number plates, and noted that any driver who is charged N6,350 and N12,500 for driver’s license and number plates respectively, should report to the FRSC and FCCPC for proper action. Speaking on the controversy surrounding the issue of driving with google map, the corps marshal said the Sector Commander , Federal Capital Territory , Corps Commander Wobin Ayuba Gora was misquoted when the media reported that he said that driving with the aid of google map using mobile phones is a serious traffic offence . The corps marshal explained that driving with the aid of google map doesn’t constitute offence when the phone is placed on the holder on dashboard of the car but holding the phone on the hand and driving is an offence. According to him, the offence occurs when a driver is driving with one hand and using the other for google map because that is distraction and can lead to crash. This is in line with what Kazeem, the Corps Commander Public Education Officer, FRSC  had said when he explained that “we have always enlightened the public on the position of the law on use of phone while driving which the sector commander tried to emphasize during the flag off . The statement he made during the flag off buttresses the position of the Corps, which is that any driver who intends to deploy the use of google map while driving must have it set on the phone before embarking on the journey , not while the vehicle is already in motion as this could be dangerous to the driver and other road users, and can lead to road traffic crash. “ We say this because, available records have shown that use of phone for whatever purpose; be it text, voice calls, chats, browsing, setting google map to find location, while driving could be distractive and can easily lead to loss of concentration. This has led to many road traffic crashes with attendant loss of lives and properties. “ On the strength of this , the Federal Road Safety Corps wishes to reiterate its position on use of phone while driving as a dangerous and hazardous road traffic behavior which has led to unwanted and avoidable road crashes.” Meanwhile, the director general of the FCCPC, Babatunde Irukera said plans are in motion to ensure that all fleet operators (commercial vehicle operators) maintain effective insurance policies. He stated that going further, any fleet operated, who does not have active and effective insurance policy will pay insurance from his or her pocket in case of any harm to the passengers or their properties. 