Rotarian Joel Haruna is the 36th President of Rotary Club of Abuja. He is a Paul Harris Fellow and alumnus of the prestigious Havard Business School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. As part of the Club’s Peace and Conflict Prevention and Resolution intervention, he recently led members of the Club to visit inmates of Suleja Correctional Facility where he granted interview to select journalists. SULEIMAN ABDULLAHI was there for LEADERSHIP. Excerpt: You recently led members of your club, Rotary Club of Abuja District 9125 to visit inmates of the Suleja Correctional Service. What informed that visit? Thank you. First of all, the Rotary International Club is all about service to humanity and in Rotary Club of Abuja where I am President, we strive to uphold the core objectives of Rotary which is to encourage and foster the ideal of service as a basis of worthy enterprise and, in particular to encourage and foster the development of acquaintance as an opportunity for service delivery. As part of our key objectives, we focus on six critical areas, which include, supporting education, engaging in medical outreach to communities, saving mothers and their children – where we offer free medical services to the poor, providing clean water as well as general sanitation and hygiene as a basis for promoting good health, growing local economies and also the promotion of peace and conflict prevention and resolution. Our recent visit to the Suleja Correctional Centre falls under the peace and conflict resolution agenda.  In what ways would your visit to the correctional facility help the inmates there? During our visit there, we were shocked to find out that some of the inmates are there simply because they could not afford to pay fines imposed on them by the various courts and they also have nobody to pay for them. Most of the cases for which they are in prison range from petty theft, burglary, abuse of trust and stuff like that. In  some cases, fines imposed by the courts range from maybe N25,000, N30,000 or even less. Also, some of them were unable to meet bail conditions imposed by the courts. We liaised with the prison authorities and approached the courts where we undertook to pay fines for nine inmates for them to regain their freedom. We also provided the inmates with clothes, foodstuff, slippers, etc. We visited both male and female sections of the correctional centre where we had talks with them. This infact is the first phase. We will go further by providing legal representation for some of them, especially those we believe were wrongly put behind bar. We are right now consulting with the legal department of the Correctional Facility to enable those of them that have no business being there to regain their freedom. We also plan to create a programme that will train them in vocational skills with a view to rehabilitating them and make them useful to society when they eventually regain their freedom. What have being some of the achievements since your investiture as the 36th President of Rotary Club of Abuja in August this year? Well, for me, the journey has not been an easy one, but I owe the modest achievements the Club has so far recorded to the commitment and dedication of our members who have continued to support our various programmes. Our members comprise core professionals and administrators who divote their time and financial resources to promote the aims and objectives of Rotary. They include, lawyers, doctors, civil servants, political offices holders, captains of industry, seasoned administrators, etc, all united in the cause of serving humanity.  Since I become Rotary President, we have embarked on a number of projects. For instance, in line with our  star project for the current Rotary year, we ae carrying out intervention at the LEA Nomadic Primary School Galadimawa, Abuja where we are building an ultramodern six classroom block and also at JSS School Nyanya-Gwandara. We also plan to provide the schools with toilets and other facilities . Very soon, we plan to go and unveil the projects and commission the boreholes there.    We have intervened in the area of education where we visited several schools, such as the Junior Secondary School, Jabi and LEA School in Gwarimpa where we donated exercise books as well as text books to the students. We also gave out school bags, shoes and a number of instructional materials to support their education. We carried out medical outreach in the Kabusa Community where we provided free drugs and treatments to the populace. I remember a particular case of a man with a ruptured appendicitis. We took him to the Asokoro General Hospital, paid for his medical bills and I thank God, today he is hale and hearty. We have also provided medical care to save some mothers and their children. The Nyanyan Gwadara Community has also benefitted from our clean water, sanitation and hygiene intervention. At the moment, we are working to take our “Growing Local Economies” intervention to communities where the women will be taught several skills such as tailoring, beads making, etc. This intervention will no doubt empower them economically.  What criteria does Rotary  Club use for citing projects in the communities? Yes, there is what we call needs assessments. Our project team will go and do a needs assessment of the communities and report its findings to the Board which will then find out if such projects are in line with Rotary. For example, the Nyanyan Gwandara Community which I spoke to you earlier about has a population of 15,000 inhabitants and there is no single borehole in that community. It is obvious therefore that sinking a borehole there will be very beneficial to the inhabitants.