The Federal Government has called on donors and development partners to support the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), saying it is the main hub for Nigeria’s attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UCH). The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire who made the call in Abuja, at the strategic stakeholders meeting with donors and partners said UHC deserved special attention, as it remained the only panacea that could guarantee Nigerians aspiration to enjoy quality, affordable and available healthcare without financial inhibitions. “As you are all aware, achieving UHC is one of the targets the nations of the world set when adopting the Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. UHC is therefore a global (WHO) objective, to which Nigeria subscribe with great commitment,” said Enahire. He pledged government’s commitment to rejuvenating all organs of the health sector for unfettered performance, especially within the context of the next level agenda, designed to rapidly multiply social and economic benefits to Nigerians while re-assuring donors and partners to NHIS of determination to continue with efforts aimed at strengthening partnerships as well as broadening stakeholders’ participation in various engagements, to improve the capacity of Nigerians to create socio-economic values and live in acceptable conditions of life. In his welcome address, the executive secretary NHIS, Prof. Mohammed Sambo, stated that the process of implementing health insurance for the benefit of Nigerians has been very slow as can be seen in the low coverage of the population. He therefore urged partners and donors for ultimate support and interventions to states especially in areas of information and communications technology (ICT), monitoring and evaluation (M&E), capacity building and human development, programme development and quality control, even though areas of intervention are limitless. The ES noted that in the target of achieving UCH by 2030 which is its core mandate, the scheme in collaboration with the federal ministry of health and state governments had commenced the implementation of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) to expand health care coverage in the country in pursuance of the provision of the National Health Act. 