Despite billions of naira reportedly spent by the federal government on rural electrification projects across the country, thousands of targeted communities are still in darkness as the contracts awarded for them are not executed. Top officials said that over N80 billion had gone as capital allocation to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) and the Rural Electrification Fund (REF) designed by the federal government to breach the electricity gap in the last four years REA and REF were twin creations of the 2005 Power Reform Act under former President Olusegun Obasanjo, but the former which was provided for as the sole custodian of the fund was established in March 2006 with the inauguration of its board to pursue its mandate of increasing access to electricity through the investment of the fund in rural electrification to in the first phase meet the Vision 20: 2020 power target of electricity for 75 per cent of Nigerians. While the REF received N2billion in seed funding from the federal government, REA got a $350 million World Bank loan, which the country is expected to pay back in 30 years. REA, an implementing agency, is mandated to provide “access to reliable electric power supply for rural dwellers irrespective of where they live and what they do.” A total capital project of N17 billion was planned in the 2019 budget for rural electrification projects. In 2018, N22.6billion was voted for it, N30billion in 2017, and N11 billion in 2016. Also, the Act setting up the REF under the Electricity Power Sector Reform Act (EPSRA), empowers it to mobilise capital for rural electrification projects. Income into the fund include any surplus appropriated pursuant to the EPSR Act (Section 53); any fines obtained by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) pursuant to the EPSR Act 2005; any donations, gifts, or loans made by international agencies, state governments, the federal government, local communities, businesses; any contribution that may be made pursuant to the EPSR Act 2005, and interest and other benefits accrued to the fund, monies appropriated by the National Assembly/special intervention fund, percentage of the annual turnover of the licensee’s as may be determined by the commission. Despite these financial interventions, LEADERSHIP investigation showed absence or poor power supply in the selected rural communities. 500 Communities Yet To Have Electricity In Plateau In Plateau State alone, over 500 of such communities are yet to benefit from REA projects. Residents of most of the communities visited by LEADERSHIP said they were not aware of the existence of the agency or its activities. In some communities where the projects were initiated, the equipment left to rot away. Such areas include Kudadu in Jos East local government area where electric poles, piles of cable, fuses, insulators and other equipment were abandoned. The equipment could have been used to provide electricity in the community in Jos East LGA since over 15 years ago are today abandoned. The residents said that the project in Federe District was abandoned without any explanation at a time the government attempted to connect them to the national grid. Ishaya Izam, the youth leader of the area, said that they were happy when the project kicked off but lamented that it had been abandoned without any reason given by the authorities. It was learnt that there are over 500 communities yet to be connected with electricity in Plateau State. It was against this background that the former commissioner for water resources and energy, Engr. Jafaru Wuyep, told newsmen that the bill to create the Plateau Energy Cooperation when passed into law would enable the state government provide electricity for the communities. In Imo State, the injection of $350 million by the World Bank and £200 million by the African Development Bank (AfDB) facilities for electricity generation and distribution across the country seems to have made no serious impact on the selected communities as they still suffer from lack of electricity supply. To these communities, electricity remains a luxury as they have not experienced what it means to enjoy the essential utility for ages. The communities include Mgbirichi, Obosima, Obiti, Asa, Awara and Ohaji Egbema, where the residents have tales to tell. They said that electricity is strange to them having suffered untold hardship in their quest to seek for its provision in their areas. The Ohaji Egbema and Ogute local government areas are the worst affected by the non-supply of electricity which they ascribed to negligence by subsequent administrations in the state. They also blamed the Imo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (ISOPADEC) for their plight. The president-general of Ilile community in Ohaji Egbema local government area, Amadi Napoleon, said that “electricity is a luxury in our community, we are appealing to the present administration to come to our aid and information reaching us indicates that the state government has set up machinery to tackle electricity issues in the various communities. Soon, this challenge would be a thing of the past.” In his comments, an indigene of Awara community, Comrade John Nwokocha, appealed to ISOPADEC not to shy away from its corporate social responsibility. He said that “the purpose of setting up institutions such as ISOPADEC is to cater for the needs and aspirations of the citizenry” and called on them not to shy away from the noble task. On the establishment of the independent power agency in the state, the director-general, Dr. Albert Ogugua Okorogu, said that “it was due to the importance of electricity to drive the small and medium scale industries and to boost the state economy that the governor decided to place premium on power suplly.” He said that over 700 communities in the state did not have electricity for the past eight years and therefore to break the shackles of darkness, the governor is keen on electrifying the areas. Lafia Residents To Enjoy Steady Power Supply Soon – NDPHC For residents of Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital and its environs, they will soon begin to enjoy adequate and steady power supply as the construction of the 330/132 KVA transmission substation in the area nears completion. The site manager of the project, Umar Moddibo, disclosed this at the weekend during the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) workshop for members of the Akurba host community and other stakeholders. Moddibo said that the project had reached 95 per cent and upon completion, would provide at least 23 hours electricity supply to Lafia and its environs. “According to our work schedule, all major works at the substation will be completed by December 23, 2019. What will be left is the powering (turn inturn out) of the substation from the nearest transmission line. “Our target is that by the end of the first quarter of 2020, the issue of insufficient power supply in Lafia and environs will be over,” Moddibo said. REA Makes Impact In Oyo Communities In Oyo State, the Nigerian Electrification Project (NEP), a federal government’s initiative that is private sector-driven, is out to provide electricity access to households, small and medium enterprises in off-grid communities through renewable power sources. NEP is implemented by REA in collaboration with the World Bank to provide off-grid electrification project in thousands of communities across the country. In the state, REA has improved the electricity generation in 270 communities and executed projects in 350 rural communities. It has also provided auxiliary materials for 115 needy communities, feeder pillarsin 95 communities and constructed 1.5kv transformer at Ado-Awaye in Iseyin local government area. Others are the construction of 2.5 feeder bay at Iseyin Injection Station, constructed high tension wire from Iseyin via AdoAwaye to improve electricity supply in Kajola, Iwere-Ile and Itesiwaju local government areas. Some of the ongoing projects in the state include the supply and installations of 500 kva transformers at Ibarapa East/Ido Federal Constituency, electrification of Olugbemi-IdirokoAdewole village of Oluyole Federal Constituency and rehabilitation of existing/ completion of rural electrification schemes in 64 communities in the state. In Kaduna State, investigations revealed that some mini-grid power plants projects had been abandoned while others were completed, just as six pilot projects were ongoing. Angry residents of Danhonu ll community in Chikun local government area told LEAFERSHIP that the electrification project in the area had been abandoned. The secretary of Danhonu Residents’ Association, Millennium City, Alhaji Abdulgafar Alabelew said: “During the period under review, we were introduced to contractors who were in charge of rural electrification across the country, who gave us several unfulfilled promises as regards the project, which till date has not come to fruition.” Further investigation showed that the story is the same in several communities in the state. However, managing director of the Kaduna State Power Supply Company, Abdulkarim Mayere, said that the government was targeting 1,000 megawatts of installed electricity before 2020. Mayere explained that 50 per cent of the electricity would be generated from renewable sources of energy such as solar and waste in the state. He said that Kaduna State Power Supply Company had identified 300 communities that were ripe for mini-grid electrification. In Delta State, electricity supply is near-absence in the rural communities. Residents of communities such as Ndemili, Utagba-Uno, Obeti, Umutu, Obiarukwu, and Aboh live without regular power supply from the national grid. Investigation also revealed that there are no signs or impacts of REA in Delta State. A director in the state Ministry of Energy appealed to the federal government to terminate deals with distribution companies and grant states the power to generate and distribute electricity. He alleged that the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) was frustrating the efforts of state government’s intervention to curb outrageous bills. It was learnt that 60 per cent of rural communities in Delta have no access to electricity for years. In Benue State, only local government headquarters and some major towns in the state enjoy electricity supply. In fact, some of the LG headquarters were only electrified, they are yet to start using the utility. Some of the residents said that they were unaware of the $350 million World Bank grant for solar mini-grids and solar home systems. Mr. Jacob Ayati, an opinion leader in Tsua community in Mbagbera clan in Vandeikya council, said that there was no electricity in the area since he was born 43 years ago. He said: “This is my first time of hearing about a project called solar mini-grids and solar home systems in Nigeria which they said is expected to impact at least 500,000 SMEs. I only see electricity in major cities like Makurdi, Gboko. So, I cannot talk of solar energy in my community, the only source of power we have is firewood and occasionally, kerosene lanterns.“ A rural-based journalist, Kene Kenneth, from Abwa community also in Vandeikya council, said that he was also hearing of the solar mini-grids and solar home systems in Nigeria for the first time. He said that even if there was any project of such nature, it had not come to Benue State. Electrical installations in Borno State got their share of the destruction of public structures by Boko Haram terrorists who bombed or pulled down transformers and other appliances in the state. Local government areas such as Bama, Gwoza, Marte, Mungono, and Kukawa, which were heavily attakked by the insurgents, were being reconnected as troops dislodged Boko Haram from the areas. The commissioner for Housing and Energy, Engr. Yuguda Saleh Vungas, said that the government had approved the reconnection of most of the councils where the terrorists destroyed power facilities connected to the national grid. Efforts to get officials of REA in charge NEP to speak on the rural projects were unsuccessful but LEADERSHIP gathered that a few communities have benefited from the scheme. It was learnt that the people of three rural communities in Kogi, Kebbi and Akwa Ibom States who had lived without electricity for years were electrified this year. Between 19th August, 2019 and 31st October, 2019, the of Upake in Ajaokuta local government area of Kogi State, KareDadin Kowa in Arewa local government area of Kebbi State, and Akpabom community in Onna local government area of Akwa Ibom State had the federal government’s solar hybrid mini grid power plants commissioned.