When a good man dies, the world stands in amok and the angels shiver in fret. They are caught in ‘dilemmic’ choice- whether to allow this beautiful soul dwell on earth or join in the heavens where the abode of joy is permanent. This is the case in the heavens and earth right now since Pharmacist Sani Alikali breathed his last. A good man adjudged an earthly angel had passed away and the world he has touched, which cut across boundaries, are in utter shock. Some are wailing in anguish, others bemoaning why good people die first before the bad ones. For everyone, the shocking death of Sani Alikali is unimaginable, sore and excruciating. Sani happened to be one of the most beautiful humans I have ever met. He was an unblemished character of human species which fitted the perfect character of a godly being. A man of generous splendour, he worked literally for the comfort of others. I have lost count of the number of Jumat at the popular Banex mosque in Abuja where he struggled amidst beggars, sharing money to them. A Friday without Sani at the mosque was an uneventful one for the alms seekers. He was born a cheerful giver. He once surprised me at a petrol station somewhere in Gudu. I had just finished filling my tank when he moved towards me and opted to pay for my petrol. I was shocked and transfixed. Never a man with pride, he was a tenant to all and everyone; he could stoop to everyone regardless of class. A proud believer of his Muslim faith and a tolerant neighbour of the Christian faith. A cultural man of repute, no Igala event that requires his attention that he won’t honour. He was a man of all seasons. Three months ago, Sani fell into the dictate of nature, he was diagnosed with stroke and so begun the fading off of this man’s life. Were money all that was needed to save Sani, he would have been alive. Were people what he needed to survive; he would have been here with us all zest. But because God has decreed that his time was due, he called him to his bosom and today, Sani Alikali lies motionless at the feet of the Almighty Allah. Our Sani is gone to rest with the lord and like battered birds beaten by the rain; we are soaked and drenched in the waters of sorrow. My brother, my friend, Sani Alikali, wake up and see the rain of prayers that heralded your death. Take a look at the love everywhere for you. Indeed, your life, although brief, is a testimony of greatness. The Internet is locked down, Igala land is still and those who do not even know you are all here talking about your awesomeness. Good night beautiful soul, farewell wonderful man. May Aljanatul Firdausi be your permanent abode- you were a good man axed hurriedly by the fang of death. Sani graduated from Ahmadu Bello University Zaria where he obtained a bachelor’s degree in Pharmacy (B. PHARM) in 1994. He later attained a Masters’ Degree in Health Management from Benue State University. Sani Alikali started his public health career as central facilitator (W.H.O/UNICEF/NPI Consultant) in polio eradication programmes and later as State Programme Logistician with Axios Foundation (GHAIN/ACTION Project) in Kano State; where he was responsible for commodity forecasting and inventory management. Prior to taking up a career in public health, he worked with May & Baker Plc as a medical representative, where he focused on detailing and marketing of vaccines, antisera and blood products. He joined the International Center for AIDS Care and Treatment Programmes (ICAP) as procurement officer then manager in 2006 to 2008. He rose to the post of associate director for procurement and acting director, Central Technical Unit leading the pharmacy and procurement team from 2008 to 2012 where he was responsible for the procurement of the antiretroviral, OI drugs and other commodities used for the management of HIV/AIDS programme in all ICAP supported sites in Nigeria. He then transitioned along with other colleagues from ICAP to CIHP and led the procurement and supply chain team as Director. In 2017, he was appointed director, Management Support Services of Center for Integrated Health Programmes (CIHP) Abuja where he was responsible for the effective management of operations including human resource management, oversight of administrative and management issues, IT and supply chain management. He held this position until his death on November 29, 2019. He was an executive director and member of the board of CIHP. Being a professional was not all he lived for. As a devout Muslim, he was totally committed to helping people who lacked in various ways and especially most vulnerable in the society. He mentored many young people, many he supported financially by providing support with their career aspirations in self-employment, education and sports aspiration. He was a support pillar to many regardless of religion, race, background or ethnicity. Pharmacist Sani Alikali who was born on July 19, 1968. He would be remembered for his studious nature, immaculate dress sense, patriotic zeal and diligence for professionalism.