Members loyal to the former governor of Ogun state, Aremo Olusegun Osoba within the Ogun state chapter of All Progressive Congress (APC) have rejected list of Commissioner nominees submitted to the state House of Assembly (OGHA) by the state governor, Dapo Abiodun for approval by the lawmakers. In a press statement issued yesterday in Abeokuta, the state capital and signed by 24 members, the Osoba Political Family said it rejected the Commissioner nominees on the ground that the list has not taken into consideration, the interest of the Osoba Political family despite the abundance of “loyal, distinguished, qualified and experienced persons” in the group. They also argued that the list does not reflect the collective positions and agreements reached during the electioneering process which gave Abiodun the electoral victory at the April 2019 poll. Governor Abiodun had last Wednesday, forwarded names of 18 Commissioner nominees to the State House of Assembly for approval and possible inauguration. But in the statement signed by the coordinator of the group, Otunba Ayo Martins alongside the 23 others, the group accused the governor of reneging on the promises he made to them that he would run an “all inclusive government” that will represent the interest of blocs that worked for his victory at the poll. They wondered why the governor would abandon their group despite the sacrifices made by them and their leader, Osoba towards ensuring that Abiodun won the governorship election. “Osoba Political Family has patiently observed the activities of these individuals who are conservatively greedy business men and hijackers of power who have succeeded in hijacking the soul of the present administration in Ogun State”. “It is on record and also an uncontroverted fact that followers and members of the Osoba Political Family were harassed, shot, macheted, beaten, and dehumanized by the former governor of the state before the election in order to create fear in the minds of people to truncate the process to the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun but the political family being progressive minded remained unshaken and irrevocably committed to the aspirations of Prince Dapo Abiodun”. “We all fought through to actualise the reality of this administration with other groups of common intention and dream. “It is on record that our leader, Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba, against all odds, stood solidly by Prince Dapo Abiodun from the point he decided to run for the office of the governor and put his hard earned reputation and goodwill at stake to surety Prince Dapo Abiodun before Labour Unions and President Mohammed Buhari”. “Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba in his sincere way of life expended his time, resources and made huge financial contributions towards the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun at the polls, to the glory of God”. “He allowed everything he has, including but not limited to his abode to be used for anything positive for the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun at the polls. Chief Osoba to our knowledge, stood as guarantor for the person of Prince Dapo Abiodun being a perfect gentle man in many place including but not limited to Palaces of prominent traditional rulers in Ogun State, where the integrity of these power grabbers cannot open the doors talk less of putting their goodwill at stake”. The group however, urged Governor Abiodun to live up to his words “and personally do the needful to address the imbalance in the appointments now and appointments to be made later as we can boldly say that its not only the members of the group that presently dominates the ongoing appointments that worked for the success of the party at the poll”. The Osoba Political Family also called on the National Chairman of APC, National leaders of the Party, South West Caucus Leaders, particularly Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Akande, Chief Adeniyi Adebayo and other well meaning Nigerians to prevail on Governir Abiodun to immediately correct the imbalance perceived in list of Commissioner nominees for the state.