Medical practitioners in the country have been urged on devotion to their profession to avoid jeopardising patients health. The advise was given at the 50th birthday celebration and launch of the maiden edition of the book titled “Journey to the golden age: The autobiography”,  by the  Head, Department of Otorhinolaryngology (Ear, Nose and Throat), University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada, Prof. Titus Ibekwe, in Abuja. Reviewing the book, Dr Udenta Udenta, noted that in medical profession there is no second chance be it diagnostic, prescription, treatment, surgery and whatever. He therefore urged medical practitioners to devote themselves to their chosen career in order to avoid jeopardising patients health. Prof. Ibekwe used the occasion of his birthday to call on well-meaning Nigerians to invest in the country’s health sector, saying that failure to do so would affect everyone eventually. He said “If you don’t come out to invest into our system, we will live to regret it as time progresses.” He also cautioned medical practitioners, saying life has no second chance. “Practicing medicine is more of giving yourself by seeing yourself as privilege to be selected to be able to touch lives and you should be able to put in everything knowing fully well that life doesn’t have a second chance”. Prof. Ibekwe, who is also the Vice Chairman, International Advisory Board of the American Academy of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Foundation (AAO-HNSF), noted that his book, comprising of nine chapters and 233 pages was conceived out of inspiration from  the challenges  he had surmounted before attaining his present level. He said “I have this deep conviction within me that it will help the younger ones shape their lives and it would be a source of courage to people who are aspiring to get to the zenith of life. “I believe that the younger ones reading this book to the very old ones is suitable for all ages across board, it will form inspiration and springboard in their lives to be able to achieve maximally and actualise their dreams. “God led me through five decades without missing a step. On each of the five stairs I have left a footprint for the younger generation.” Dignitaries at the occasion include Dr Tom Adaba, Pioneer Director General of National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) who chaired the event, Hon. Tanko Sonunu, Chairman House Committee on Health, Prof. Michael Asuzu, Professor of Public Health and Community Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Senator Ifeanyi Uba, Mr. Paul Odili Chairman Paulo Group and Prof. OGB Nwaîrgu. Others included Chris Morgan, gospel singer and songwriter, representatives from UniAbuja management and staff, ASUU, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Otorhinolaryngological Society of Nigeria (ORLSON) among others. 