The early signing of the 2020 budget has elicited various reactions by players and stakeholders in the Nigerian economy, from commendations on the timeliness, to ensuring implementation and protests on the allocation to some sectors. OLUSHOLA BELLO, CHIKA IZUORA, BUKOLA IDOWU, ZAKA KAHLIQ, YUSUF BABALOLA, DUSTAN AGHEDO AND HANNAH ONI write. Six months after the 2019 appropriation was signed into law, President Muhamadu Buhari last week signed the 2020 budget into law, the first time in a long time that the budget will be passed before the beginning of the year. The N10.59 trillion budget is an increment from N10.33 trillion that had been sent to the National Assembly. A breakdown of the budget showed that N560.47 billion was budgeted for Statutory transfer; N2.725 trillion for debt servicing; N4.84 trillion for recurrent expenditure; N2.465 trillion for capital expenditure; and N2.28 trillion for fiscal deficit. The budget as passed by the National Assembly also maintained Nigeria’s daily oil production rate at 2.18 million per barrel, but increased the Oil Benchmark Price to $57 per barrel against the 55 dollars proposed by the Executive. The signed 2020 budget also retained inflation rate at 10.81 per cent and the exchange rate at N305 to a dollar as proposed by the Executive. President Buhari, whilst signing the N10.59 trillion 2020 appropriation bill into law on Wednesday noted that in the twenty years since the return to civilian democracy, this would be just the fourth time that the federal budget was passed before the end of the previous year, and the earliest. “I’m pleased that the National Assembly has expeditiously passed this Bill. Our Federal Budget is now restored to a January-December implementation cycle” as he urged the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and all Federal Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) to ensure effective implementation of the 2020 Budget. Commenting on the early passage of the budget, Managing director and chief executive officer of APT Securities and Funds Limited, Mallam Garba Kurfi said that the early signing of the budget is a great step towards economic recovery. He said this gives the executive the ability to implement the budget on time adding that “it will accelerate economy development since capital projects will be implemented as when due provided there is enough funds to implement. It will encourage timely completion of the project. The multiplier effect to economy is enormous.” Looking at the Nigerian equities market performance, Kurfi said that the market already recorded negative returns for the two consecutive years 2018, posting a loss of 17 per cent and 2019 will close with a loss, having posted a year-to-date loss of 15 per cent with a total effect of over 30 per cent given many stocks trade below the fair value with this is likely 2020 to be a bullish year with a double digits gain. According to him, the implications of the budget will accelerate the recovery of the Capital Market. The low interest rate of the money market will encourage shift into the Capital Market, he said, adding that the policy attracted more foreign investors to the Nigerian market, thereby creating liquidity and boosting investors’ confidence. Acting director-general of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Ms. Mary Uduk, recently said while the local and foreign investors are interested in the nation’s budget and the level of implementation, the capital market is looking at the impact of the budget, and how the market can aid its implementation. “The capital market is very important in accessing long term funds for capital projects. The capital market can fund budget deficit. We are interested in driving and contributing to this economy. We believe there are a lot of opportunities for the capital market in the budget,” she said. In his reaction, president of Oil and Gas Trainers Association of Nigeria (OGTAN), Afe Mayowa, commended early passage and assent of the budget by the president as that will facilitate execution of critical projects in the oil and gas industry. Mayowa, said that early deployment of resources to Joint Venture, JV, projects would enable government realize its ambitious aspiration of meeting daily oil production estimate of 2.18 million barrels of oil daily in 2020. The oil and gas industry, he observed is witnessing an unprecedented wave of capital spending, driven by the need to build capacity to meet growing energy demand from emerging markets and to replace depleting supply sources. The possibility of releasing money into project execution from early in the year will go a long way in enhancing development of new projects to increase production and build capacity in the Sector. The OGTAN president further stated that disciplined 2020 capital expenditure budget in the sector will reaffirm the country’s commitment to free cash flow generation and debt reduction especially in its JV projects. Reacting to the passage of the budget, Head of Research at United Capital, Wale Olusi noted that the passage of the finance bill is crucial to the implementation of the 2020 bill. According to him, no matter the time the budget is passed, if it is not implemented 100 percent doesn’t have any impact. “Everything is tied to revenue. The implementation of the finance bill which is yet to be passed, that is supposed to support the N8.5 trillion in that bugdet.” He noted that an increase in Value Added Tax, VAT from five per cent to 75 per cent along with other changes that is meant to be implemented with the passage of the finance bill will go a long way in impacting the revenue base of the country and the ability to implement capital expenditure  in the budget. He also noted that the early passage of the budget means that “the capital portion of the budget implementation will start in January and then it will mean that the 2019 budget implementation won’t be curated. Because if you have a running budget and then you pass a new one, one tends to give way for another. “So I want to assume that part of the capital expenditure of the 2019 budget that should go into first half of 2020 will now be implemented in 2020 budget which captures some of the items already listed there.” He also noted that the recurrent portion of the 2020 budget will also carry the new minimum wage which they started paying from December 2019. Tourism analyst, Mr Adebayo Adegboyega noted that “What Mr President did is very commendable because fundamentally the budget ought to have been out before the fiscal year, such that we would know what the government has committed into each of the sector and parastatals of the MDAs. Such that those people that will implement the content of the budget will know exactly what they would implement and those people who have oversight function on the budget would have the copy. “The first thing for the play in the industry is to come up with a realistic position to where the industry would be taken to in the nearest future. “Tourism industry in Nigeria as it is right now is far below the expectation, far below what it should be because we have lots of historical places as well as tourism places in Nigeria which ought to have been developed to what they are right now. So now it is one of the ways we can generate a lot of revenue for the government. “For instance if you look at the number of people that travel to Dubai in a year and the average money that is spent by travelers to Dubai the money is sufficient enough to care for the budget of the first ten places in Nigeria. “If you wonder why money made in Nigeria is spent on Tourism in other countries whereas we have what it takes to channel our perception to internal tourism centre (Domestic) as well as attracting neighboring African countries into Nigeria. “So my position is that the key players in the industry should play together and put their hands together and think what they can maximally achieve with what is budgeted for the sector and think outside the box and see how they can attract private investors to the industry to make it more attractive and to be one of the best industries in the country.” President of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Saratu Iya Aliyu said that NACCIMA commending the Executive and Legislative arms of government on the swift passage of the 2020 Budget in line with the promises of the ninth Assembly to revert the budget cycle to a January to December period, noted that it took the National Assembly about 57 days to pass the 2020 budget bill into law. “Our Association uses this opportunity to re-emphasise some of our concerns raised during the presentation of the Budget proposal in October 2019. We note that the Budget Deficit continues to rise from N1.9 trillion in 2019 to N2.8 trillion proposed in 2020. Foreign Debt is estimated to increase by 64 per cent based on the 2019 Budget, and 180 per cent based on the 2018 Budget. Capital Expenditure is two per cent higher than the 2019 Budget 34 per cent lower than the 2018 Budget. Recurrent Expenditure continues to rise, possibly due to the implementation of the proposed minimum wage.” She added that “It is our position that the GDP growth projection of 2.93 per cent is highly optimistic but achievable. This is due to the Global Economic Outlook Report by the World Bank as at June 2019 which indicates that Global Growth is expected to weaken to 2.6 per cent in 2019 and increase slightly to 2.7 per cent in 2020. “This position is corroborated by the five year Policy Thrust of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The World Bank expects GDP growth rate in Nigeria to edge up to 2.2 per cent in 2020.” Aliyu stated further, “We appreciate that the federal government has recognised at various fora that the performance of Value Added Tax is dependent on the level of economic activity. As such, we re-emphasis our position that government’s policy focus should be on increasing the level of economic activity as a way to generate revenue from taxes. “NACCIMA notes that the government has adopted an oil price benchmark of $57 per barrel, a daily oil production estimate of 2.18 mbpd and an exchange rate of N305 per US Dollar for 2020. However, this statement appears at odds with Nigeria’s current crude oil output of 1.69 million barrels per day and statements credited to Minister of State for Petroleum which assures the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) of Nigeria’s commitment to compliance with OPEC’s new production quota of 1.774million barrels per day. This raises some concern on the revenue projections expected to fund the budget.” She pointed out that in conclusion, and against the background of the Finance Bill currently undergoing passage at the National Assembly, NACCIMA acknowledges the federal government’s need to fund the implementation of the national budget, especially, in line with the new minimum wage structure. She explained that “Our Association counsels that expanding the tax net, implementing tax reform, and ensuring robust tax administration while promoting and facilitating productive economic activity will contribute greatly to increasing government revenues with less negative impact on the economy.” The president, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mansur Ahmed, said that it is a good development and thus shows the discipline Buhari administration has been trying to bring back into the public finances, which is very good. According to Ahmed, combining this with the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), one should expect that if these are put together should bring significant improvement in public finance management, saying that this will mean government expenditure will become productive and the country can do more with the revenue we are having down. He urged the government to look into the efficiency of public service machinery, saying that it is one thing to approve the budget and to implement the budget efficiently. “We have N10.6 trillion budget, funds should be released for the capital expenditure. The government should increase significant the effectiveness of government spending particularly on capital expenditure spending, processing of capital project must be much higher, faster and the money budgeted should be released within the stated time.” He further stated that “We expected to see a better performance in the utilisation of the usage of the 2020 budget,” saying that “Unlike what we do have in the previous year that less than 50 per cent of the budget will be utilised and this has a result of money not realised on time.” The president of MAN also pointed out that the President should be congratulated, calling on the working together of the National Assembly and the President in ensuring the full utilisation of the 2020 budget. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers(NCRIB), Mr. Fatai Adegbenro, applauded the federal government and the National Assembly to have passed the 2020 budget earlier than it used to be, stating that, this would ensure there is enough time to execute projects allocated for in the budget, unlike the previous years where projects are rolled back into another year because budgets are passed late in the year and no enough time to execute projects. Moreover, he said, this will also ensure that government and its agencies renew their insurances as and when due, thereby, contributing to growth in premium income of the insurance industry. As federal government embarks on capital projects, he said, insurers would equally be able to underwrite especially those capital intensive projects, saying, the timely passage of the budget would lead to rapid economic transformation and growth, while ensuring that government has more time to provide the needed infrastructure that will lead the country to its promise land. Earlier, the managing director/CEO, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs. Funmi Omo, had said, the continuous late passage of budget in the previous years have done more harm to the country, while also affecting government to appropriately renew its insurances, especially on Group life insurance cover. With the enforcement of ‘No Premium No Cover’ policy in insurance industry, she said, the inability to renew group life for government employees is endangering the lives of dependents of those workers should any worker die while in active service. She urged government to always pass the budget as earlier as possible just as it is being done in developed economy, so that, the rate of economic growth and development can be faster. On his part, the National president, National Council of Managing Directors of Liscenced Customs Agents  (NCMDLCA)Lucky Amiwero, said “the challenge is not just allocation of N123billion to the transport sector but the Implementation of the said amount. What was allocated last year and what was the level of Implementation? It is not just figures but the level of Implementation and money allocated and released for capital projects. What was  allocated for rail and where is the rail heading and what’s the purpose of the rails? “Was the release not politically motivated but for the interest of the people and nation at large? Then it is welcome but if it is allocated for the purpose of political interest, we just want to satisfy people here and there, we will have problem because at the end of the day you will find out that we will be involved in white elephant project which are not going to reflect on the true perspective of economic realities in the country.” “The issue like I said earlier is not the amount allocated but there are three fundamental issues which are the figures released, like looking at what happened last year and what is the level of Implementation last year and of what importance is the implementation is it to the economy? “The maritime sector can create over 1million jobs if properly harnessed. lot of infrastructure are lacking, the ports are not moving, over concentration of import on Lagos, the ports are not linked to rail, they are not link by sea, we are lacking coastal rail which can be used to move cargoes through the coastal area. “So, we are lacking a lot of things that we shouldn’t look at what government allocated to the transport sector but what are the reality, the Impact it will create in generating employment and creating wealth for the people. Also, we should look at what have been done with the allocation since 2015. It is for us to know what approval has been given over the years and what have been done with it,” he said. The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) expressed their outmost disappointment of the signing into law, the 2020 Appropriation Bill, saying that such consistent yearly paltry allocation to the education sector would only have very grave and serious consequences for the nation in future. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the National Public Relations Officer, SSANU, Salaam Abdussobur said that although the signing of the 2020 budget was laudable as a result of its timeliness in comparison to when previous budgets were signed, but that the excess baggage that accompanies the poor allocation given to the education sector was particularly worrisome. He decried the level of priority given to education in the budgetary allocation, saying that the allocation of about four per cent was a sad statement of the understanding of government on education.  According to him, the meagre allocation to the education sector portends grave consequences for national development because of the prime place education plays in that regard. “SSANU had pleaded with the national assembly to review the allocation to the education sector when the 2020 Appropriation Bill was first presented before the House. Our advise has sadly, not been heeded.  We have witnessed reductions in the percentages allocated to education in the last three years and it’s quite worrisome. What it portends is that with every year, we are witnessing less premium being placed on education. “The average Nigerian is knowledge hungry and there is a high demand for education which should have naturally made Nigeria a great educational hub. This has however been impossible because of the dearth of infrastructure and facilities in our institutions which make them unsuitable for learning. “Our institutions are suffering serious neglect due non availability of funds to maintain them. Gradually, our public primary and secondary school systems have been suffocated to death. Our tertiary institutions are being strangulated and hampered due to dearth of funds and other challenges. “The steady reduction in allocations is a great disservice for a knowledge hungry society like ours and it’s really sad when you juxtapose our circumstances with a country like South Africa where its highest budgetary allocation is to the education sector where about 15 per cent has been allocated in the 2019 budget with a projection of an increase of about 7 per cent in the 2020 budget. What this does to such a country is to increase the number of skilled labour. Such an allocation also impacts positively on other sectors such as security and defence, health among many others. “Explained very simply, the more educated a society, the less tendency for such a society to witness crimes. Similarly, there would be less health challenges. Even India increased systematically, its budgetary allocations by 3 per cent annually since 2016,” Abdussobur said.