The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said the demonstration launch of Fifth Generation (5G) network in Nigeria by MTN Nigeria reflects the Federal Government’s commitment to deepening broadband access in Nigeria. Its executive vice chairman (EVC), Prof. Umar Danbatta stated this at the demo launch of 5G in Lagos by MTN, affirming that 5G would be the bedrock of future communications. “5G launch is a testament to the support of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy to the Nigerian Communications Commission and the private sector,” Danbatta stated through NCC’s Lagos zonal controller, Henry Ojiokpota on the occasion which attracted traditional rulers, medical practitioners, students and the representatives of Lagos State government. Quoting a report by Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA), he said 5G is expected to support significantly, faster mobile broadband speeds and lower latencies than earlier generation networks., adding the network would enable the full potential of the Internet of Things (IoT). “5G is a game-changer that will revolutionise the way of life from education to agriculture, security to entertainment, and governance in general,” he stated. Explaining further, the EVC said the availability of a fast wireless network would enable virtual learning and empower students and teachers to re-imagine what is possible inside and outside their classrooms. In healthcare delivery, he said 5G would ease Artificial Intelligence (AI) and revolutionise healthcare as it makes it easier to organise diagnoses and to decide on the best treatment plan for specific patient. “As demonstrated here today, by moving to 5G networks, healthcare organisations can use the AI tools they need to provide the best care possible from wherever they are in the hospital or clinic,” he stated. Lagos is the third city in Nigeria, where MTN has demonstrated the potency of 5G technology. The demonstration of the technology had earlier taken place in Abuja and Calabar on November 25 and 28 respectively.