About 6500 cargo-laden containers worth several billions of naira have been abandoned at the various terminals across the nation’s seaports by shippers. Findings by LEADERSHIP revealed that over a period of weeks, these containers, mainly owned by the government and partly by private companies, were abandoned at the Lagos and Port Harcourt ports. It was gathered that while about 5,000 overtime cargoes were abandoned at the Lagos port complex, about 1,500 containers are abandoned at the Onne seaport, Port Harcourt, Rivers state. While some of the containers in the Lagos ports are for power, agriculture and other federal and state government intervention projects, others are for private sector operators. Baffled by the abandonment, the West African Container Terminal (WACT) had complained to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) that overtime cargoes had taken over 80 per cent of the terminal yards’ occupancy. The NPA’s managing director, Ms. Hadiza Bala-Usman was said to have intervened. But, despite Bala-Usman’s appeal to the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to begin on the spot assessment of the abandoned cargoes, nothing was yet to be done. Bala-Usman had said, “We have noted that a lot of containers have been abandoned by consignees at Onne port and the WACT terminal is overflowing with containers. “We as agencies of government are always inundated by reports that our ports are not efficient. We are discussing with the Nigeria Customs on what we need to do to auction some of these cargoes because as a responsible consignee, you can’t come into this country and abandon your consignment,” she said. Investigation by LEADERSHIP at the terminals in Lagos showed that some of the cargoes had been left there for nearly 12 years in the seaports thereby eating up spaces and fueling cargo congestion. According to a manager of one of the terminals who craved anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the press, while about 30 per cent of the overtime cargoes were imported by the federal government, another 20 per cent were imported by contractors on behalf of the government. He stated that the containers were abandoned at the seaports mostly because of change of government and administration.  “Most of the containers are projects of the federal and state governments. They also have contractors that import on their behalf and abandoned it at the ports for reasons best known to them but mainly because of lack of continuity. “The oldest of the cargoes has spent 4,063 days, that is equivalent to 12 years in our terminal and the abandoned containers have occupied about 15 per cent of the yard capacity.” He also urged the Customs Service to fine-tune the auction process so as to allow the evacuation of the cargoes out of the port to free up space for fresh import. The chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria, (STOAN), Princess Vicky Haastrup called on the government to intervene on the matter, saying if the issue was not tackled as soon as possible, terminal operators would be running their business at a loss. Haastrup also said that because there were so many laden containers in the terminals, the space to take empty containers was limited, explaining that terminal operators make more money when they have more space to do container operations. She stated: “Let the Nigeria Customs Service come and auction these overtime cargoes because they occupy commercial spaces in our terminals. If that is taken care of, we can dedicate a large space for empty containers. Right now, because our members have so many laden containers, there is a limit to the number of empty containers they can take. Meanwhile, the president, National Council of Managing Director of Licenced Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Lucky Amiwero argued that there is need to ensure that overtime cargoes are transferred from the ports to government warehouse to decongest the port terminals.