Contrary to speculations that it bowed to local and international pressure, especially from the United States (US) government, the federal government has said that it released former national security adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and Sahara Reporters’ publisher, Omoyele Sowore, from detention on compassionate grounds. The clarification came yesterday from the attorney-general of the federation (AGF) and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). Before his release last Tuesday, Dasuki had spent over four years in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) while Sowore, the convener of #RevolutionNow Movement, was held for almost five months. Malami, in a statement issued by his spokesman, Dr. Umar Gwandu, reiterated that they were let go in line with the Muhammadu Buhari administration commitment to the rule of law and obedience of court orders. Gwandu explained that Malami’s clarification came during an interview with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Hausa and the Hausa Service of the Voice of America (VOA). He stated that there are multiple options after the court ruling, either to appeal or review the order. The minister said: “The only reasons for the release of Omoyele Sowore and Sambo Dasuki revolved around our commitment to the rule of law, obedience to court orders, and on compassionate grounds. “It is important to understand the fact that as far as the law is concerned and in relation to the Nigerian justice system, one has multiple options after a court has ruled on a matter. “The right to appeal the said ruling, the right to ask the same court that issued an order to vary or review the terms of the order as well as the right to request for stay of execution of the order pending the hearing and determination of an appeal in that matter,” he said. Malami denied the claim that his office received a formal communication from any American senator on the matter, adding that the action was not due to any domestic or international pressure on the federal government. The minister maintained that the federal government has the right to keep detaining the suspects while challenging the order admitting them to bail up to the apex court. He said: “Even if we received any communication from them (foreign powers) that will never be the basis on the part of the federal government to obey or disobey court orders emanating from Nigeria. “The critical question that you may ask should be whether there is a strong suspicion of committing an offence or not. If there is a strong suspicion of committing an offence which deserved, as a matter of necessity, to be investigated through legal steps, then there was no room for thinking of witch-hunting an individual, scoring acrimonies or personal vendetta against anyone,” he said. The AGF stressed that Dasuki and Sowore could now enjoy bail based on the merit of their individual cases. “The time has now come for Sambo Dasuki and Omoyele Sowore to also enjoy bail based on the merit of their individual cases. They were charged based on their individual cases, taken to court, granted bail and now have been released. All the individuals involved were treated fairly and justly; they were taken to court, enjoyed the court’s favourable discretion and they were all released,” he said. While appearing yesterday as a guest on Channels Television’s Politics Today, the AGF again denied that his office received a letter from the US Congress two days before the release of Dasuki and Sowore from detention. He said: “What I can confirm to you is that no such letter was served on my office and no evidence or acknowledgement of receipt of such a letter in my office can be made available by the purported writers of the letter.” The AGF insisted during the programme that the release of Sowore and Dasuki was neither a product of international pressure nor as a result of the intervention of the international community. Malami explained that their release was a fair product of the government’s compliance with the court order in line with a desire to extend compassion to the individuals in question. He said that the trial of other detainees would go on because some of them were being handled by the state governments, which precludes the intervention of the federal government. This may be an inference to the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, who is being prosecuted by the Kaduna State government. Also, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has said that there was nothing wrong in re-arresting any accused person if such action is imperative. ACF national secretary, Mr Anthony Sani, said that people were making issues about the re-arrest of Sowore by the DSS) as if there was everything wrong with it. He said: “There is absolutely nothing wrong with re-arresting an accused after he/she has been released on bail. It is nothing usual or strange, and it happens in all jurisdictions and countries. The DSS had indeed obeyed the subsisting court order when it released him within the stipulated 24 hours. If the court had wanted him not to be re-arrested, it would or could have given a restraining order against a re-arrest on the same charge in the order it granted for his release on bail. Perhaps Sowore had not asked for that and a court does not grant what has not been asked for.” When asked if nothing was wrong in the re-arrest of Sowore in the court premises, Sani said: “I am not aware of any law that prevents arrest in any premises, including worship places. But I thought the DSS has disowned the video in circulation as being stage-managed and orchestrated in order to tarnish the image of the DSS.”