Governance of Borno State amidst the Boko Haram challenges is what anybody at the helm of affairs has to contend with especially when one inherited the crisis which has held the state to ransom for the past 10 years. But with Professor Babagana Umara Zulum’s approach to governance, most of the local government areas once ravaged by the Boko Haram terrorists have continued to witness government presence despite the difficulties in accessing them. The governor in his effort to ensure the return of civil authority to most of the local government areas previously occupied by the Boko Haram terrorists before their liberation by the Nigerian military, had seen him touring them one after the other mapping out projects for execution. The quick return and resettlement of his displaced persons taking refuge in Borno, different areas of the country and indeed Cameroon and Niger Republic among others, has been the reason for the governor’s emphasis on the need to restore lasting peace to the state and the region. In his move to take governance to one of the former strongholds of the Boko Haram terrorists , Zulum held his first cabinet retreat in Damasak in northern Borno, where the Boko Haram terrorists once established a caliphate before their overthrow by the military. The movement of the state governing machinery with all his state executive members, including members of the state House of Assembly and spent nights in the former Boko Haram enclave, speaks volume of the governor’s resolve to return life to the previously abandoned Boko Haram Caliphate. Damasak, the headquarters of Mobbar local government area, where Zulum held the retreat is one of the communities in Borno State that became virtually empty after repeated attacks by Boko Haram. The town, one of the largest in Borno, shares a border with Niger Republic. Attacks on soldiers and the few civilians left in Damasak by the Boko Haram is commonplace. But that did not deter the governor from holding his retreat there.
Zulum said that defying the security threats to hold a retreat in Damasak was not intended to put his cabinet members in danger but to make them appreciate the enormity of the problems faced by his new government. Isa Gusau, the governor’s spokesman, who provided details of the retreat, said the retreat is holding in Damasak, “which has remained a shadow of Itself since it was occupied by Boko Haram as a caliphate.” He said, “Damasak, hitherto a major agricultural community in the fringes of the Lake Chad that is less than 10 kilometres away from Diffa in the Niger Republic, was occupied and administered by Boko haram from November 2014 to 2016 before it was recovered by multinational forces. “Damasak had come under repeated attacks including early this year,” the spokesperson said. In his opening speech at the retreat, Mr Zulum was quoted as saying that the choice of Damasak was to bring top government officials “face to face with the realities” on the ground and to remind them their appointments were not opportunities for luxury but for the serious task ahead of them. “By tradition, retreats are held in the most serene and oftentimes, luxurious environments‎. However, holding retreats under the serene atmosphere is reserved for those who live and operate under normal circumstances. “Fellow members of the state executive council, I will like to remind us very strongly that our circumstances in Borno State are not normal. If we decide to hold our retreat in Maiduguri, Abuja or perhaps at Obudu Cattle ranch in Cross Rivers State, we may not be totally true to ourselves and sensitive to the plight of our people. “The wisdom of convening this retreat in Damasak, headquarters of Mobbar local government area in the most troubled northern part of Borno State, is to bring all of us, face to face with the realities of our challenges in Borno. “Driving from Maiduguri to this place, we have passed major towns like Gubio and Kareto which have become near ghosts of what they used to be. We have seen villages that are without human occupation. We have seen on the road, soldiers at different points, clearly indicating that all is not normal with Borno.
“Borno has serious challenges and we have individually sworn with the Holy Qur’an and the Holy Bible to do whatever we can in trying to address the challenges facing Borno State,” the governor said. Zulum also charged the participants to see Damasak as an example that tells the realities of the 27 local government areas in the state. He said, “Timelines are going to be created for the attainment of goals determined at the retreat. “At this retreat, ladies, and gentlemen, we shall not only come up with ideas that are achievable but insha’Allah, we shall be setting for ourselves timelines within which we are to achieve every goal we aim. “ We are here to spend only a few days in Damasak but there are thousands of our fellow brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers, who live here on a permanent basis. We are here to feel their stay and to remind us of their needs for continued safety; their needs for shelter; their needs for medical care; their needs for water; their needs for schools; their needs for means of livelihoods.” Earlier, secretary to the state government, ‎Usman Jidda, said the retreat was meant for top government officials to cross-fertilize ideas “towards better service delivery in line with Governor Zulum’s vision and approach to governance.” He said the retreat had resource persons who discussed topics “peculiar to the challenges facing the state and suggestions on how to move forward.
Similarly, while citizens affected by the Boko Haram insurgency are wallowing in different IDPs camps, one of the major challenges confronting equitable distribution of relief items donated by government, donor agencies, humanitarian bodies and well spirited individuals, is food diversion and collection of double rations by the IDPs themselves, who in turn sell the item in the open market and willing buyers, thus depriving others of food. It has been reported that even some officials in the camps in collaboration with some of the humanitarian workers indulged in the diversion of the foods or non-food items provided for the IDPs in the camps. Thus, in Zulum’s audacity in checkmating the diversion menace, he went spiritual in Monguno where he had so far spent two days, coordinating, supervising and trying to sanitize the distribution of food items to 190,045 ‎IDPs , majority of them from Marte, Kukawa, Mobbar, Guzamala and Monguno local government areas, all in northern part of the state. In Zulum’s presence, a copy of the Holy Qur’an was raised the traditional way, seeking the wrath of God against the Governor himself, humanitarian workers in the state emergency management agency, the national emergency management agency, other government officials and anyone for that matter, who diverts food and other aids meant for the welfare of displaced persons. The oath was also administered against IDPs who had the habit of collecting multiple rations of food most of which they sold in markets, depriving fellow displaced persons of food. Monguno is the largest town in northern Borno, a majorly Muslim part of the state most troubled by insurgents attacks. Monguno is not far from Baga and Kukawa from where citizens fled after attacks. Monguno itself had come under the occupation of Boko Haram around 2013 and 2014. Early this year, the insurgents had made two failed attempts to seize military barracks in Monguno. Zulum had at the weekend ordered the deployment of trailers loaded with varieties of food items especially rice, spaghetti, oil and other condiments ahead of his visit. The governor also ordered that a copy of the Qur’an be made available. On the fateful night, Zulum held series of meetings with officials involved in humanitarian activities and those of local government areas whose citizens are displaced in Monguno. The following day, Zulum, at 6am, began a tour of the 16 camps in Monguno. He went early to ensure that genuine IDPs who spend nights in camps were to benefit. In each camp, the governor spent at least an hour, reorganising and distributing customized tickets to bread winners of households with which the families receive quantities of food to last them for weeks. A mild drama, however, took place when hundreds of adult male and female IDPs began to leave queues whenever the oath administrator (acting like a town crier) raised the Qur’an calling on God to punish anyone of them who was in the queue to collect multiple rations of food. “Listen to me very attentively, Governor Zulum has asked me to announce to you, that from himself as your governor down to humanitarian officials of SEMA, NEMA, other government officials and anybody at all, whoever diverts food meant for IDPs, may the curse of God through the instrumentality of the Qur’an, come upon that person. “May the wrath of God come upon anyone who has collected allocation ticket but came here to collect what is meant for others. You all know that food is distributed to households and everyone here is part of a household, if you know you are not the head of a household or that you have already collected your portion, better leave the queue or you incur the wrath of the Qur’an” the administrator, Babagana, popularly referred to as Babagana, said, raising the Qur’an with his right hand. As he made the announcements in every camp, displaced persons left in numbers, some of them laughing. Until the introduction of oath by the governor, humanitarian workers have had to contend with problems of food vending by hundreds of displaced persons who collect multiple allocations. There were also allegations of dubious collaboration between some humanitarian workers and IDPs.