The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has cut down bank charges on not-on-us Automated Teller Machine (ATM) from N65 to N35 and electronic fund transfer to N10 for transactions below N5,000. The apex bank in a circular it issued in Abuja, yesterday, said that the revision of the charges was in response to further evolution in the financial industry over the past few years. In the CBN’s revised “Guide to Charges by Banks, Other Financial Institutions and Non-Bank Financial Institutions”, it said that electronic transfers above N5,000 but below N50,000 will attract N25 fee while transfers above N50,000 will cost N50. The new rates become effective from January 1, 2020. It noted that the guide first released in 2004 and revised in 2013 and 2017, was in the light of market developments such as new innovations in products, channels, and new industry participants. The guide further stipulates that card maintenance is now N50 per quarter for cards linked to savings account while cards used for current accounts are not to be charged the fee. Foreign currency-denominated cards are to be charged $10 or its equivalent on an annual basis. The new guide also contained a downward review of charges on electronic transactions, a review of other bank charges, market developments and inclusion of new sections on accountability, responsibility and a regime sanction to directly address cases of unapproved and arbitrary charges. The accountability section states that the “executive compliance officers (ECOs) shall monitor compliance with the requirements of this guide and shall be held liable for any breach. It added that the head, Information Technology Division shall ensure that the names of all system related/generated/posted charges shall conform strictly to this guide. The officier shall render monthly report attaching a schedule of all failed transactions on e-channels (ATM, PoS, mobile, web/internet and related channels) that originate or terminate in his bank, to the director, Payments System Management and Consumer Protection Departments of the CBN. “Details of all fees and charges applicable to a transaction shall be disclosed to the customer at the point of consummation (where applicable).  Transaction receipt/alert/confirmation for any charge shall contain a description of the charge,” the CBN said. In a chat with journalists in Abuja yesterday, director, Corporate Communications of CBN, Isaac Okorafor explained that some of the highlights of the new guide on bank charges to include the removal of Card Maintenance Fee (CAMF) on all cards linked to current accounts, a maximum of N1 per mille for customer induced debit transactions to third parties and transfers or lodgments to the customer’s account in other bank on current accounts only. There is also a reduction in the amount payable for cash withdrawals from other banks’ ATMs (remote-on-us) from N65 to N35, after the third withdrawal within one month. Other reductions include Advance Payment Guarantee (APG) now pegged at a maximum of one per cent of the APG value in the first year and 0.5 per cent for subsequent years on contingent liabilities. On debit card charges, Okorafor stated that the new guide stipulates that a one-off charge of N1,000 applies to the issuance of cards, irrespective of card type (regular or premium). The same one-off charge of N1,000 applies for the replacement of debit cards at the customer’s instance for lost or damaged cards. In the same vein, upon expiry of existing cards, customers are to pay the same one-off charge of N1,000 irrespective of card type. Conversely, no charge shall be required for pre-paid card loading/unloading. He further explained that the current NIP charges apply to use of Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD), purchase with cash-back will attract a charge of N100 per N20,000 subject to cumulative N60,000 daily withdrawal. Also, for cards linked to savings account, the maintenance fee has been reduced to a maximum of N50 per quarter from N50 monthly amounting to only N200 per annum instead of N600. Okorafor said that there would be no more charges for reactivation or closure of accounts such as savings, current and domiciliary accounts while status enquiry at the request of the customer (like confirmation letter, letter of non-indebtedness and reference letter) will now attract a fee of N500 per request. On Current Account Maintenance Fee (CAMF), the guide states that this would be applicable only to current accounts in respect of customer-induced debit transactions to third parties and debit transfers/lodgments to the customer’s account in another bank. It emphasised that CAMF is not applicable to savings accounts. According to him, the CBN carried out the review of the guide, which also prescribes charges permissible for other financial institutions and non-bank financial institutions in order to align with market developments. To guard against excess, unapproved or arbitrary charges by banks and other financial institutions, the guide stipulates a penalty of N2 million per infraction or as may be determined by the CBN from time to time for financial institutions that breach any provision of the guide. The  new rules also stated that failure by any bank to comply with CBN’s directive in respect of any infraction shall attract a further penalty of N2 million daily until the directive is complied with or as may be determined by the apex bank from time to time. The CBN, therefore, directed banks to log every complaint from their customers into the Consumer Complaints Management System (CCMS) in addition to generating a unique reference code for each complaint lodged, which must be given to the customer. Failure to log and provide the code to the customer, it added, amounts to a breach and is sanctionable with a penalty of N1 million per breach. The charges prescribed in the guide were arrived at after extensive consultations with stakeholders and is expected to enhance flexibility, transparency and competition in the Nigerian banking industry. The guide, which replaces that of 2017, takes effect from January 1, 2020, and may be reviewed from regularly to reflect changes in the business environment. The CBN urged financial services providers and their customers to acquaint themselves with the provisions of the guide and act accordingly.