The national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has criticized the Nigeria Police for cancelling the rally of the party slated for yesterday in Benin City, the Edo State capital. He accused the police of providing cover for thugs to perpetuate violence in the state capital yesterday.
Oshiomhole alleged that the police watched as thugs gained access to the Benin Airport with the intention of preventing him from arriving in Benin City to attend a rally of the APC to receive decampees from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The APC chairman who spoke with newsmen at his Bénin City residence stayed away from the venue of the rally which never held.
He was said to have been technically placed under house arrest, a claim the APC chairman refuted. Oshiomhole, who insisted that he was not under any house arrest, said that the police planned to create mayhem so that they could blame him. He alleged that the police authorities refused to provide security for him. He said: “The leadership quality of a man is tested under excessive provocation. If it was my old self, I will not only go there but I will make speech that by now the battle line is drawn. As national chairman, I had to pay the price by abstaining from going there so that I deny the IG and Edo Police Command to go and kill people and blame it on me. “I am embarrassed that the IGP will write me a letter informing me on the strength of my application which I informed him of our intention to do a rally. We informed the police not for license so that they can earn their salary. It is not for them to grant permission. I thought as national chairman, I should be formal. I delivered the letter myself so that it can be more personal. “He conveyed to me that he has directed the police to provide full security so that the exercise can have full security. The IG knows the political value of Pastor Ize-Iyamho joining us. What I am not able to understand is how the same IG could be alleged to send a letter to Philip Shaibu that the rally will not hold. The party is not run by the government; it is run by the party. The business of people joining us is the responsibility of the state chapter which invited me to join them to receive Pastor Ize-Iyamu. “I am from here and I have worked with the pastor for which I am proud. It is a shame on Edo Police Command that people in broad day light thought they can intimidate me from arriving in Bénin. The police supervised and superintended over this violence even as the IG has given me a letter. As at that time, no other letter has been issued. For the police to claim they are unable to secure the Airport Road, as reporter, I asked you to explain what Edo people went through yesterday. Benin was locked down just to oblige the deputy governor or the government of Edo State,” he said. Oshiomhole, however, said that he was happy that the rally held successfully and that the APC was poised to win future elections in the state.
He said it was worrisome that Governor Godwin Obaseki could interpret some things as plot to stop his second term bid. Tension heightened in Benin City over a possible clash between supporters of Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki over a planned rally to receive former PDP governorship aspirant, Ize-Iyamu and his supporters. Thousands of APC youths had on Thursday taken over the Benin Airport where Oshiomhole was expected to arrive in the state capital with his members of the National Working Committee (NEC). The angry youths set bonefire at the exit gate of the airport chanting anti-Oshiomhole’s slogans. The much hype that greeted the preparation for the mega rally and anticipated dignitaries at the occasion were absent. Oshiomhole who was expected to led other dignitaries such as the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo Agege, minister of state for labour, Festus Keyamo, and some APC governor’s shunned the rally. The rally which was earlier scheduled to hold at Garrick public field, Ekenwa Road was put off after the IGP ordered that it be suspended following report of insecurity. Unconfirmed report at the time of filing this report had it that the state commissioner of police, Mohammadu Adamu, prevailed on Oshiomhole to stay away from the rally from escalating the already tensed situation in the state. A detachment of mobile police squad was stationed at his Okorotu Government Reserved Area (GRA) residence.
Despite the IGP’s order and a statement signed by the secretary to the state government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie, banning all forms of political rally and procession in the state citing security concerns, a faction of the Oshiomhole-led APC converged at Ize-Iyamu’s residence where he was received by the party’s factional chairman, Col. David Imuse, who presented him with a broom, the APC symbol. Imuse said that the joining of APC by Ize-Iyamu and his supporters from the 18 local government areas was a homecoming worthy of celebration.
He said: “We are here to celebrate the homecoming of our brothers and sisters from the PDP who have come to add value to our party, they are coming to make our party grow from strength to strength so that we can win at all levels”. In his response, Ize-Iyamu said that the notion that he was joining the APC in Benin City was wrong because he had already done so as required by party regulations at his Ugboko ward in Orhionnwon local government area. Displaying his APC membership card, he said that “for those who are in doubt, the moment I made up my mind to join the APC, I went to my ward and I am proud to say I have registered in Ugboko ward in Orhionmwon local government area.”