Oil bearing communities under the aegis of Concerned Citizens of oil and gas producing communities of Rivers state are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the payment of the 13% derivation fund to the host areas and not the state government. The communities in a letter addressed to the president, lamented that despite the establishment of several intervention agencies, as well as the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, the host communities are still impoverished. The letter was signed by the chairman, Jasper Amahi, secretary, Comrade Isaac Igomaha and Public Relations Officer, Comrade Iginiwari Fidelis, of the group. According to the letter, the lingering underdevelopment in the face of wealth, is one of the factors responsible for youths’ restiveness across the Niger Delta region. Commending the President Buhari-led administration for its drive towards developing the oil-rich region, the group accused those in authorities of exploiting the masses in the past years. It added that paying the oil and gas areas directly will speed up the much needed development. Parts of the letter read thus: “we need not say that the principle of derivation was in practice in Nigeria even at 50% long before the discovery of oil in commercial quantity in Oloibiri, precisely, Otuabagi community, Ogbia Local Government Area of present day Bayelsa State. “In the 1999 Federal Constitution, Section 162 (2) as amended, 13% Derivation Fund is succinctly provided and it is to ensure that the oil producing communities who have lost their livelihood, everything and suffered from the pollutions oil spillages, devastation, degradation of oil exploration activities should be adequately compensated. “It is regrettable, therefore, that nothing and we mean nothing practically has been done to ameliorate and better the lives of the poor and down trodden masses living in abject poverty in the midst of plenty which have made Nigeria thick. “It is saying the obvious that the restiveness in the Niger Delta region is as a result of the neglect and lack of development everywhere you go in the region where oil and gas producing or impacted communities lack every basic amenities to make life conducive in modern day living. “It is ironic and a paradox that what is a blessing to the Nigerian government and other Nigerians is a curse to us who are suffering the brunt of oil production indeed. Nigerian economy revolves on oil revenue, about 95% and yet we have nothing to show for it. “It is on record that River State since year 2000 have collected over Seven Trillion Naira as 13% derivation fund but yet there is so much poverty and crime because of the high level impoverishment and total embezzlement of the funds meant for the development of the Oil and Gas bearing Communities of river state. “Now, therefore, it is imperative that Mr. President fulfills his mission to move the people to the next level. To this end, kindly direct, as per the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the payment of 13% derivation fund directly to the down trodden masses where oil exploration and gas flaring take place, to take charge of the affairs of the administration of their environments and improve their communities. “Consequently, we solicit Mr. President to use his good offices to so direct the relevant agency to pay the 13% derivation fund to the people direct and not to the state governor or River state government. The peace of the Niger Delta region is the growth of Nigerian economy.”