Over N120 billion worth of goods and property were lost to fire outbreaks across the country, especially during the dry season, a loss experts say would have been better mitigated with the requisite insurance policy, ZAKA ABD-KHALIQ and CHIBUNMA UKWU write. T he industrialisation era which the world witnessed in the 19th century, coupled with technological discoveries of the 20th century further exposed the world and its people to serious danger. Natural habitats and things gave way for industries and artificial machines to work for man as natural creatures and lifestyle went into extinction. While this evolution made living comfortable, it comes with it risks that continue to struck at every moment. Tsunami, flooding, earthquake, fire outbreak, volcanic eruption, air crash, accidents, among others are risks of the 21st century, arising from rapid evolution the world has witnessed over time. Of recent, especially we transit into dry season, fire outbreak has become a regular occurrence. Houses, shops in market places are razed down into ashes with multimillion Naira investments lost in the process. Fire outbreak is not planned for, it’s a disaster that happens whenever it wants to. From experience, dry season seems to witness more fire outbreak than raining season and this is understandable. When fire outbreak and other mishaps struck, the victims are always returned to penury, or unable to be in a financial position he was before the disaster struck. And when a life is lost as a result of this, the members of the deceased family are made to suffer. Insurance arises as a succour to those who might be victims of the aforementioned risks and in situation where a shop has fire insurance policy, insurance company will replace back the goods in the shop. However, fire insurance is usually sold as an extension of building insurance although it could be sold separately as Fire and Special Peril insurance policy. Aside this, there are Micro insurance policies that gives coverage to goods and all equipments in shops, either in the markets or outside market premises. Whichever one takes, he or she is sure to be paid claims when there is fire outbreak, as long as the policy is genuine and its terms and conditions are adhere to. Market observers believes low awareness about fire insurance policy, and religious belief are preventing shop owners to pick up policies in this regards. Experts charged insurance companies to increase advocacy on fire insurance during this period, so that, traders are aware of its benefits and consequently subscribe to insurance policy. Multiplier Effects Of Recent Fire Outbreak On Wednesday, October 16th 2019, a fuel tanker fire accident claimed several lives and buildings and properties in one of the busiest markets of the Eastern part of Nigeria, the Onitsha main market in Anambra state. On Saturday October 21st 2019 shops were razed by fire and goods worth millions of naira were consumed in a blaze at the Santana Market,  Sapele Road in Benin, Edo State. Within a week, there were four major market fire incidents: two in Onitsha, Anambra State; one in Benin, Edo State and another in Ughelli, Delta State. These fires had a few things in common. The destruction was large scale and affected many people and they were exclusively market fires. And with Christmas fast approaching, traders of Anambra state and beyond are still in gloom following the losses that befell them from the disastrous fire outbreak. The state this year alone has witnessed about two great fire incidences in their popular markets, Ochanja and Relief markets respectively. The fires, which were caused by the falling of a fuel tanker on the 16th October claimed immeasurably lives and properties worth billions of naira. Decrying the effect of the Onitsha fire incidence, stakeholders said the development will lead to economic hardship and famine in the South East. Speaking on this, a Geologist and a social analyst, Mr. Daniel Dike said, the incidence will affect not just the people of Anambra state but on the Igbo race as a whole. To him, “The incidence will affect south east general because the market is manned by the igbo’s,  not just the people of anambra state. There is this belief that when one person suffers, it has a ripple effect on those that depend on him directly or indirectly so the economy of the whole people around that locality is negatively affected.” Similarly, the Chief Executive Officer, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria ( HURIWA), Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, described the recent fire incident of ochanja market as very unfortunate. He lamented that over a decade, the major markets of onitsha have witnessed repeated fire disasters.  This, he said, ought to have gotten the attention of the state government towards providing a sustainable means that will put the ugly trend in check. The fire incident, according to him, has unleashed immerse financial constraints on the traders because hundreds of small and medium scale investors have lost all their businesses to the unfortunate fire incidence. “The colossal financial disaster caused by the fire outbreak is not less than N100 billion. The loss of such huge amount  of money could have been averted if the government of the state had been apt to put effective fire disasters prevention measures and mechanisms which should include establishment of effective and efficiently administered fire fighting agencies close to the markets which should be upgraded at all times,” he pointed out. Other experts said there are many variables involved in these fires which are outside the control of the traders, but one of them is firmly within their control. They said  adoption of fire and special perils insurance would have gotten them back to business with ease after a fire-related loss. The traders, as a group, they stressed, can take up a fire and special perils insurance to protect themselves against losses by fire, storm, flooding, explosion, among others. To them, ‘This will ensure that anytime any of the insured perils occurs, the insurance company will indemnify them; that is, restore them back to the financial position they were before the loss.’ This was also alluded to, by Comrade Onwubiko, who encouraged traders to take up insurance policies and that state government should be the guarantor of such insurance policies to be sold to traders. Insurers Paid N23bn On Fire Insurance In the last three years, insurance companies have paid a sum of N23 billion insurance claims to fire victims across the country,  LEADERSHIP can exclusively reveal. While majority of the claimants are corporate organisations who had insured their office premises against fire out breaks, investigation revealed that there are pockets of individuals who had insured their houses, offices or shops against fire disasters, getting claims as well. With incessant increase in fire incidents across the country, especially, in factories and market places, there has been continuous surge in the volume of fire claims in the last five years. Data sourced from Insurers’ Digest, a publication of the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), shows that insurance companies paid N5.7 billion fire claims in  their 2016 financial year, while they paid about N8 billion in 2017 financial year,  even as operators paid about N9 billion in their last financial year(2018). For the 2016 financial year, 260 companies and individuals got N5.7 billion claims from 20 insurance companies across the country. Most of the claims, it was learnt, came from urban centres such as, Lagos, Abuja, and Portharcourt. With this trend, the insurance industry seems to have improved over time in the area of paying genuine claims as more people are now aware on the need to make claims whenever an Insured risk occurs. This is a signal to traders, who are skeptical about whether there Claims would be paid or not, that underwriting firms will always honour their claims obligation. Need To Insure Shops, Buildings Against Fire An Insurance specialist, Mr. Ekerete Ola Gam-Ikon, while speaking about how fire-risk protection can work into the architecture of market administration across the country, attributed the low awareness of fire insurance, which sometimes, is an extension of building insurance, to low awareness. Stating that insurance industry stands to gain more both in terms of deepening insurance penetration and creating more value for the economy, he said: “Imagine that 15,000 market men and women take up life insurance policies in the first instance, then their properties, including shops, vehicles, houses and transactions. Remember, there is compulsory insurance for public buildings, and I wish that were in place.” Market groups, he said, may be hesitant about this policy given the mixed feelings people have about insurance, he charged the insurance industry under the aegis of the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) to have a progressive engagement with the market groups. “NIA, as the trade association of insurance companies in Nigeria, is appropriately positioned to drive the awareness campaigns. Insurance is a law, and the NIA knows, so they should not allow the National Policy on MSME and other similar laws to be reviewed and passed into law without the element of insurance. The government has played its part by putting a law in place; the industry leaders have to be more creative to win more people into insurance, most especially traders,” he said. He noted that why traders do not insure their lives and goods is that they do not have pleasant experiences with insurers, and the bad stories have persisted from generation to generation in spite of the decent work that has been done by a few insurers and the regulator. “Insurance industry needs to communicate better with the public and be more efficient in its service delivery. It is imperative to mention that if the tanker had a genuine Third Party Motor Insurance policy, the insurer would have been responsible for the compensation of the families of the deceased and those that were injured,” Gam-Ikon said. He said this is beside the fact that at least N1 million is provided by the policy to take care of the damaged property of the affected parties. Similarly, the Managing Director/CEO, Guinea Insurance PLC, Mr. Tunde Oshadiya, said, insurers must let people know the benefits of insurance policies they are carrying, stressing that, nsurance of public building is compulsory by law. Tenants, he said, should make it a priority to ensure that the houses or shops they want to rent is insured by their landlords. According to him, “One of the cheapest thing you can buy is insurance. For instance, you can insure a N10 million house with N25,000 premium. Most policyholders did not know that the Fire Insurance policy they have covers Flood, or when wind blow-off your rooftop. All these need to be explained to policyholders by marketers to ensure that customers maximize their cover.” The former Commissioner For Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari, said, the National Insurance Commission(NAICOM), was looking at a way of collaborating with Fire Brigade for enforcement of building insurance. To him, “If NAICOM signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Lagos State government, which we are almost finishing, Lagos state will use Environmental Sanitisation board, Revenue Generation Board, Fire Brigade- which we(NAICOM) have an agreement signed with them and since every state has its own fire brigade, the business would be done state by state- to enforce insurance adoption. So, you can see now how much this will bring to state and insurance industry as well.” The Fire brigade, he said, is empowered by law to enforce building insurance, and the agency alongside the State Inland Revenue will be visiting organisations, offices, shops, filling stations and houses to request for their insurances. “They will visit your place and ask you to show your evidence of insurance, and if you can’t provide that, they will fine you there for not insuring. That is under their law. They will seal your business and you will continue paying fines everyday, till you have insurance. We have finished arrangement with the fire brigade,” he stressed. However, this has not been done, although, the regulatory body met all the governors of the 36 states of the federation under the Governors’ Forum earlier in the year on this. Advising traders and others to insure and that claims would be paid when an insured risk occurs, the Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA), Mr. Tope Smart, said, though, there has been series of complaints of claims default against some insurance firms, he said, NIA, as an association, is addressing this issue by advising operators on the need to promptly pay genuine claims. He stressed that claims settlement instill trust in the mind of the people, increases insurance patronage, thereby, deepening penetration. The President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria(CIIN), Mr. Eddie Efekoha, had said, insurance operators have improved in the area of prompt payment of genuine claims, noting that honouring claims obligations is the reason why underwriting firms exist. He said the best form of insurance advocacy that operators can do is to pay claims, saying, the beneficiaries will spread the gospel of getting claims in insurance firms, thus, persuading more people to pick up insurance policies.