The chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad’s call for the review of the 1999 Constitution to address the concerns of Muslims and the Sharia law has been endorsed by some lawyers. But the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) have kicked against the CJN’s action. To the Muslim Lawyers’ Association of Nigeria (MULAN), there is nothing unsavory in advocating for an increase in the number of justices of the Court of Appeal who are well grounded in Islamic law given the fact that the number of justices in that court was increased by an additional 20. Justice Muhammad had at a recent function in Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), demanded an increase in the number of the Court of Appeal justices learned in the Islamic laws. In a speech read on his behalf on December 14, 2019 by the Grand Khadi of Niger State, Justice Muhammad Danjuma, the CJN said that those who want to specialise in Islamic Law in the universities should be taught in the Arabic language. In his response, the chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Anti-corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), said that ‘’the constitution say there should be three justices learned in the Islamic law and three justices learned in the customary law be appointed at all material time in the Court of Appeal bench. ‘’This is to ensure that there is balance in the provisions to protect the interest of all the religious and cultural adherents in the country so that no one would feel shortchanged.’’ In the same vein, MULAN said that the CJN’s call for an increase in the number of justices of the Court of Appeal versed in Islamic Law was in order. In a statement signed by its national president, Prof. F. A. R. Adeleke and secretary-general, Barr Alasa Ismaila, the group said that ‘’there is wisdom in asking that those who want to specialise in Islamic Law in the university should be taught in the Arabic language in which the primary source of the law is written. ‘’This will enhance a proper grasp of the law on their part and make them better practitioners unlike the present situation where a tertiary language – English – is used with its attendant deficiency.’’ The lawyers recalled that the agitation by the Muslims to be allowed to practice their religion unencumbered was stoutly resisted by CAN and its proxies in the Constituent Assembly in 1978. “The walkout by the delegates who were Muslims was what allowed for the highly qualified provisions for Sharia Court of Appeal to be created and vested with the jurisdiction to entertain matters of Islamic Personal Law as well as the appointment of at least three persons learned in Islamic Law to the bench of the Court of Appeal.’’ The group added that the struggle led to the enactment of Sections 260, 277 and 237 respectively of the Constitution of Nigeria, 1999. Section 237 (2) (b) of the 1999 Constitution states that the Court of Appeal shall consist of… ‘’(b) such number of justices of the Court of Appeal, not less than 49 of which not less than three shall be learned in Islamic personal law, and not less than three shall be learned in customary law, as may be prescribed by the National Assembly. ‘’It is important to point out that since 1978, there has been substantial increase in the number of the Court of Appeal Divisions as well as in the justices. ‘’However, the number of justices grounded in Islamic Law has remained stagnant at three. This is unfair to Muslims as many appeals on Sharia matters are left unattended to in the various divisions of the Court of Appeal. Hence, the crying need for an increase in the number of Islamic Law jurists to the Court of Appeal bench,’’ MULAN said. Also, a former executive secretary of Muslim Ummah of South West Nigeria (MUSWEN), Prof. Daud Noibi, who berated HURIWA and CAN over their calls for the resignation or removal of the CJN, said that there was no basis for the opposition to the comment credited to the CJN on the need for the improvement of the status of the Sharia in Nigeria. Noibi, in a statement he made available to journalists, said: “We should rather salute the courage of the CJN, commend him for making the call and urge the National Assembly to take quick action on his suggestion and do the needful.” He said: “My attention was drawn to the separate calls made by the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) for the resignation or removal of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). “The two bodies bitterly criticised the CJN for calling for the improvement of the status of the Sharia in Nigeria through the amendment of the relevant sections of the constitution. They described the CJN as heating up the polity by calling for what they described, laughably though, as the Islamisation of the country. “The comments of the two bodies reminded me of those of an Ibadan High Court judge back in 1990. In the course of expert evidence that I gave before him under cross-examination on Sharia provisions on succession and inheritance by the renowned legal luminary, Mrs. Folake Solanke (SAN), the trial judge, a Christian, expressed surprise at, and profound appreciation of the depth and breadth of the Sharia. “Openly before the whole court, he lamented his lack of knowledge of a law in force in his own country even as a judge. Consequently, he advocated that every student in Nigeria should be made to study the Sharia. How does that compare with the attacks of the HURIWA and the CAN on the CJN? What a huge contrast! Who knows better the constitution and the law, a judge or a biased human rights writer and a layman scribe of CAN combined? ”Section 38 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) guarantees freedom of religion both in belief and in practice to all adherents. The whole life of a Muslim is governed by the laws of his religion,” he said, adding that, “therefore, it is the duty of the nation to provide for a judicial system whereby the relevant laws are interpreted correctly and disputes among adherents arising from such laws are resolved peacefully. “Hence, there are provisions in the constitution for the establishment of Sharia courts anywhere this is required in the country to cater for the needs of Muslim citizens. If HURIWA and CAN are not asking that these provisions be expunged from the constitution, why do they want to crucify the CJN for calling for the improvement of the Sharia as other laws in force in the country are open to improvement? “What way is the improvement of the application of the Sharia for Muslims in Nigeria offensive to non-Muslims? And in what way does it constitute a violation of the provision of Section 10 of the Constitution which prohibits the adoption of a state religion by the state? “Incidentally, the critics contradicted themselves by suggesting that Nigeria is both a ‘secular’ and ‘multi-religious’. Aren’t the two terms mutually exclusive? No, where in any constitution of Nigeria is the country described as ‘secular’. “Those who are pathological hostile to anything Muslim to the extent of denying fellow citizens who happen to be Muslims, rights even as simple as the use of hijab by female Muslim pupils and students are better advised to purge themselves of such hostility for the good of all. “Let them bear in mind that Muslims are aware of the fact the Saturday-Sunday weekend imposed on all of us by our Christian colonisers satisfies the religious needs of only Nigerian Christians. Yet, Muslims are not complaining. So, let non-Muslim citizens of Nigerian cultivate the spirit of “live and let’s live”, he said. However, CAN national director, Legal and Public Affairs, Evang. Kwamkur Samuel Vondip, described as a threat to national unity, the call by the CJN for a constitutional amendment, with a view to adding more Sharia contents. Vondip also condemned the CJN’S advice that academics champion the cause of redesigning the methods of teaching Sharia law; discard English as the language of instruction in Sharia law and for a separate faculty dedicated to Sharia. In the same vein, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) slammed the CJN for suggesting embedding Sharia law into the constitution, adding that the National Judicial Commission (NJC) should sanction him for attempting to heat up the polity. Chief Mike Ahamba (SAN) stated that, ‘’whether there’s an increase or not, the interests of the Muslims have at the material times been protected in the courts.’’ The chairman, Legal Aid Council, Emeka Ngige (SAN), said that “I can’t comment because it is not yet certain whether the statement credited to CJN is actually his. Besides, the 20th All Judges’ Conference did not take place in ABU, Zaria.’’