Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s  plan to transform Lagos into a smart city and achieve its T.H.E.M.E.S agenda has received a boost as a leading  indigenous firm  has expressed their willingness in partnering the state to achieve the goal. Speaking, to journalists in Lagos the Chief Executive Officer of Istabod Integrated Resources Ltd, Mr. Adetayo Ogunbode said the partnership is to ensure Lagos State remains the role model in every areas of Public administration, Creative and Strategic development. He said there is need for all lovers of the state to join hands in the crusade of the Governor, Mr. Babatunde Olusola Sanwo-Olu to make the Mega City a truly Smart City which will become a rallying point and darling for all countries in Africa, saying the T.H.E.M.E.S which is an acronym for Traffic Management and Transportation , Health and Environment , Education and Technology must be achieved. According to him, the firm has put in place a strong structure that serves as a reservoir for the state human and capital development in selected and strategic Ministries and Agencies. Ogunbode averred that the firm is strategically positioned as obtained in advanced countries to serve as back up and support centre for government and her various development programmes. According to him, ‘’the company will be pushing out strategic solutions in form of programmes by which the state could use to tackle for instance the ugly and problematic issue of refuse collection and disposal in the Metropolis through Identified Informal System (IIS) that makes the Citizens more responsive and responsible to their environment.’’ While applauding the determination of leaders of the ruling party (APC) in Lagos State for ensuring that young, agile and dynamic ones are always presented to the electorate Ogunbode revealed that his firm will be supporting the state in the manpower development across Ministries. ‘’The Firm will close rank with the State Government to activate a system that would ensure the return of sanity and discipline in the State’s Primary and Post Primary Schools so as to assist in her struggle to return back the past glory of Public Schools and equally ensure respect among stakeholders which Private Institutions seems to enjoy and impose in the Public.