As ECOWAS prepares to launch a single currency in 2020, MARK ITSIBOR lays bare the ongoing intrigues and realignments in the Commission When Presidents of the Commission of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) meet in Abuja on 21st December 2019, they will be expected to receive, adopt and consider the recommendations of the Ministerial committee of Ministers of Finance and Governors of the Central Banks on the ECOWAS single currency project. They will take decisions based on the draft report that will be submitted by the committee. The committee held a 2-day meeting in Abuja last week and adopted the draft report on the level of preparedness for the proposed single currency for ECOWAS. The meeting had the participation of 14 Ministers of Finance and their representative as well as seven Central Bank Governors from some of the countries. The linchpin – ECOWAS Commission was also in attendance as well as UEMA, WAMA and WAMI. Rising from the meeting on Friday, the Ministerial committee adopted an expanded report that covers key areas as microeconomic convention report, the status of the implementation of the revived roadmap activity, adoption of exchange rate regime, the location of the ECOWAS Central Bank, the adoption of ECO as the name of the proposed currency, the operating rule of the west African market integration commission, among others. During the meeting, the Ministers and Governors discussed several issues that are defined in the roadmap to the realisation of a single currency for West African region. The members deliberated on the symbol of the currency, proposal for the name of the name of the central bank of ECOWAS, term of reference for the location of the ECOWAS central bank The committee adopted “Eco” as the name for the proposed single currency for the region. Although the committee rejoice over some of the milestones recorded so far, there are strong indications that the proposed monetary union won’t work based on some un-agreeable differences among member countries. It was President of the Commission of ECOWAS, Jean-Claude Kassi Brou who rightly said that despite the achievements so far, “we all know much work needs to be done to achieve the ultimate objective of a strong monetary union which can serve the economic and social development of our legion and our people.” Indeed, there are a lot to worry the regional body. First is the issue of boarder closure by the Nigerian government. As it stands, the house is divided by the temporally boarder closure in Nigeria. This correspondent gathered that while a few countries, including Togo and Ghana agree with Nigeria that bilateral agreements on boarder protection must be strictly adhered to by neighbouring countries to Nigeria, a larger number of the 15-country commission argue that Nigeria should open the boarders for unbridled movement of people and goods for effective implementation of trade and financial integration to facilitate cross-border trade payment and financial transactions – when the single currency comes to use, a situation that is almost impossible. In that same regard, the model for implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement remains a big bull in ECOWAS’ shop. The controversy is how to effectively benefit from the agreement individually, and still maintain a regional position that will not make the region a dumping ground to other African countries, with a strong “Eco”. Beyond that, there is a general view that ECOWAS may have to either pal plow or drop the idea of a single currency at this time. Those who belong to that school of thought have a tight point. For instance, 9.5 per cent or 14 of the ECOWAS member States do not have the primary requirements to operationalise the currency – “Eco”. There is a seemingly intractable challenge of member countries’ failure to satisfy the convergence criteria on a consistent and sustainable basis in a manner that is stipulated in the supplementary Act relating to macro-convergence stability. According to reports, Togo was the only country to meet all the primary criteria over the past consecutive two year period. It is impossible to operationalise “Eco” in 2020 with Togo alone. That alone makes the prospects of the introduction of the proposed single currency somewhat problematic. On top of that, only five countries – Cape Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea, Senegal, and Togo – meet the requirements on inflation and budget deficits so far. If you listen to Nigeria’s Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, you would find a picture that suggests that the launching of a regional currency for ECOWAS in 2020 may be very far from possibility. Hear her: “The prospect for the currency in 2020 viewed in terms of macroeconomic stability and convergence, is to say the least, rather uncertain.” Recall, the crisis that threatened Europe was not one of currency but the economic and financial situations of the countries that make up the European Union. What that means is that for ECOWAS to achieve its aim, her data must be very factual and be a real reflection of what happens in its national economies.
The question as to whether ECOWAS member countries have the level of reserves as one of the pre-conditions for launching a regional currency that can match with its counterparts like the Euro, remains a puzzle for all. There are six convergence criteria for Eco. They include a budget deficit below 3 per cent of GDP; public debt of no more than 70 per cent of GDP; inflation of 5 per cent; and a stable exchange rate. The standard is that the region must have gross foreign-currency reserves large enough to provide at least three months of import cover for the West African region. Besides that, the proposed ECOWAS central bank must have financing deficit that is not more than 10 per cent of the previous year’s tax revenue. ECOWAS President Brou noted the vulnerability of the regional economy to external shocks when he said, “We need to collectively work in an adequate manner to deal with our common challenges by ensuring we remove all the difficulties. Africa and the ECOWAS community are currently at a moment of gross expectations. The decision that would be taken at the conference will have direct implication on the monetary policies and economic management of the various ECOWAS countries. While some representatives from lower populated countries are advocating that the proposed ECOWAS Central Bank be cited in a state with a population of 500,000 and above, others say it should be located in a city or town with a minimum of 2000,000 people. There is was a unanimous agreement that the building of the ECOWAS Central Bank should be higher than the standard of the building of the Central Bank of the host country. In all of these, the focus is on Nigeria to go all hog and shoulder about 50% of the responsibilities of the currency project perhaps because of the size of its economy. It remains to be seen what becomes of the outcome of the ECOWAS heads of state when they meet in about two weeks’ time.