More than 38 million Nigerians are currently benefitting from World Bank assisted projects in various communities across Nigeria. This was one of the revelations at the third quarter review meeting of the Community and Social Development Project (CSDP) held in Abuja. The National coordinator of CSDP, Dr Abdulkarim Obaje, said the data for the estimated population was collated from the quarter Review meeting data, covering communities in the 30 participating states and the FCT. Obaje who said the project is being implemented in 556 local government areas and area councils in the country, added that “CSDP has assisted poor communities and vulnerable groups to build, rehabilitate and maintain about 14,000 micro projects as at the end of the second quarter of 2019.” He said Water, Education and socio economic support are the most subscribed micro-projects by communities. According to him, support to the water sector totaled 3,695 micro projects, Education 2,718 and Socio Economic 2,008. Others are Health – 1,757, Transport – 2,008, Rural Electrification – 1,386, Environment and Natural Resource – 78 and 104 Community Housing projects. He assured that the CSDP, as one of the social protection projects of the present administration, has been refocused to complement President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s drive to reduce poverty in the country. Declaring the Review Meeting open, the National coordinator of the National Social Safety Coordinating Office, Mr Iorwa Apera, commended the CSDP for the achievements recorded so far and tasked the Project Managers to do more work in the areas of gender and vulnerable investment component of the Project. “It is the vision of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to improve the infrastructure deficit in poor rural communities and that is what the CSDP is doing, I therefore commend you and urge you to continue the good work,” Apera said. The CSDP is a World Bank assisted project with the objective of increasing access by poor people, internally displaced persons and vulnerable people to improved social and natural resource infrastructure services in the country. 