The Palatial Palace of the respected Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty Omo N’ Oba Ewuare II had been agog with the colourful celebration of popular annual Igue festival. Patrick Ochoga, writes. The rich and colourful Igue festival of the ancient Benin Kingdom is as old as the Kingdom itself and  one ceremony that every Benin son and daughter look forward to every year. The Igue festival usually commences with the Benin monarch His Royal Majesty Omo N’Oba Ewuare II’s observance of the Ugierhoba rites as part of the symbolism of the Royal lineage.  Ugierhoba rite is a memorial anniversary of Oba’s ancestral fathers. Rituals during the occasion are used to make propitiation to the spirits of the transited monarchs. Omo N’Oba, Ewuare according to custom and tradition of the kingdom, used Ugierhoba rite to offer intense sacrifice at the altar of his ancestors for divine protection, good health, prosperity and bountiful harvest ahead of the New Year. Just as the Christians celebrate Christmas, Jews Hanukkah, Muslims the feast of Ramadan, the people of Benin mark the traditional Igue festival. Despite some criticisms against the festival by some Christian faithful, the aged long festival over the years have continued to wax stronger. In fact, for the Edo man, in spite of his religious belief still subscribes to the traditional ritual of the Igue festival. According to a Benin historian, Dr Ademola Iyi-Eweka, when a Benin man says he is celebrating Igue festival what it means is that he has embarked in a celebration that ushers in the New Year for every Edo-speaking man before the incursion of the white man into his life. Igue emphasizes “the ritual of Head worship” by every Edo-speaking man. It usually takes place in December every year. He pointed out that the head worship ritual is also performed with Kola nut stuck on the fore head while blood of fowl or animal smeared on it is said to keep the head in good condition so that it may be well with the person “Uhunmwun when translated in Edo language means head and to the Edo man, it is the head that takes you through life’s journey. The head must be in good condition at all times”. “In addition to Uhunmwun,  is the belief of the Edo’s in EHI-his second self” The spiritual self that guides and protects the temporal self.” “Igue Festival is also the time the Oba and some chiefs are involved in Agwe (fasting). We do not know how fasting came into Edo man’s religious life. But it does take place and the Oba goes into seclusion, not to be seen by visitors. It may have been a Christian/Muslim influence more than 500 years ago. It could have started on its own or earlier”. “When the Oba and his chiefs break the fast, they are ready to perform Ugie Erha Oba ceremony honouring the Oba’s ancestors. The Edo’s believe in ancestral worship and everybody joins the Oba in Ugie Erha Oba. The Edo man’s belief is in no way different from that of the Jews, when they call on the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob”. Continuing Eweka further explained: “the ceremony of the worship of the head-the real Igue, of the reigning Oba takes place openly at this festival. This is followed by that of the princes and princesses. This is rounded up with Ugie Edohia and Ugie Ewere three days later”. “The Enogies and any traditional ruler in the ancient kingdom, fixes their own dates in their respective domain after Ugie Ewere. “There are no shrines, and no artifacts. To the Edo man, It is nothing but an attempt by the Edo man to thank Osanobuwa-Osanudazi –Oghene-Oghodua, identified as the creator God, the Alpha and the Omega, the Unmoved Mover for guiding “the MAN “ through the vicissitudes of life”. “The Edos do not use the Gregorian calendar when calculating the year. They use the moons. From the Igue festival of 1896, you can understand what it meant. The massacre of British troops at Ugbine on January 4th 1897, took place at the height of the festival of the year-1896.” Historical Perspective Of Igue It is necessary at this point to explain the meaning of the word Ugie. It simply means festival. You can now understand that the Igue festival is made up of many festivals. Before Ugie Edohia and Ugie Ewere comes Ugie Iron. This is a celebratory re-enactment of the conflicts between the Oba of Benin and the seven hereditary chiefs – the Uzamas. The royalists were triumphant. Other historical incidents of the life of the Edos, such as the drowning of Oba Ehengbuda and the assassination of an Iyase of Benin on the directives of an Oba of Benin are re-enacted. The Ugie Iron -festival used to be separated from other festivals by 4 to 14 days. This is Edo history being taught publicly through songs and re-enactments. One hundred years ago, there were no schools, the art of writing was not developed. History was written through re-enactments, songs, carvings and bronzes. The present day Igue festival is a shadow of its former glory. Between 1897 and 1914, it was not celebrated. Oba Ovonramwen was entombed by human security network of the British agent, Sir Ralph Moor at Calabar. At this time in 1899, Iyase Okizi was the de facto Oba of Benin and not Chief Agho Obaseki. General Ologbosere had been captured and executed by the British soldiers. The guerrilla warfare led by General Ologbosere had lost steam after the battle of Okemue. The crown Prince Aiguobasimwin, later Oba Eweka II, was on the run with his own military battalion. The Esans (Ishan) were still resisting British rule especially Irrua and Uromi. The Enogie of Uromi had made it known to the British Resident that, he had not sufficiently explained to him, what they have done to Oba Ovonramwen. Iyase Okizi, was an Edo patriot and soldier, who organized the defense of Ekiti land against Ibadan. At his defense trial in 1897 after Benin fell, he was more concerned with Yoruba soldiers fighting on the side of the British. Some of these soldiers he had trained in the art of warfare while he was in Yoruba land. He did not deny his involvement in the massacre of 1897. In fact, he gave the order to General Ologbosere, to use all means possible to prevent the white man, from making it to Benin through Ughoton. When the British soldiers showed their faces, he gave the order to attack. Since he was not physically on the scene of battle, the British agent could not convict him. On him then rested the organization of a civil administration. He became the leader of the Native Administration. He started building a new palace for himself, having been told Oba Ovonramwen was not coming back. He soon got involved in a running battle with other chiefs especially the royalist and the British agents. He died suddenly in his sleep in the early days of 1900 without spending one night in his new palace. Igue festival came back with the restoration of the monarchy in 1914. Chief Agho Obaseki, the right hand man of Oba Ovonramwen was now the Iyase of Benin. The Christians quickly moved in on both of them. Chief Agho was converted to Christianity. Oba Eweka II refused to celebrate Igue festival of 1916/17. Then Influenza epidemic struck in 1918 in the after math of the world war. Thousands of Edo-speaking people were said to have died as a result of the epidemic. The Edos blamed it on the non-observance of Igue festival. Law and order almost broke down in Benin City as the common man went rioting. The Governor had to send troops down to Benin to restore order. The Governor was furious and was bent on punishing Oba Eweka II for causing such a disturbance. A Commission of Inquiry was set up ostensibly aimed at Oba Eweka II. At the hearing, Oba Eweka II turned the table on the British Administration. He laid the blame of non-observance of Igue Festival on the three people. The festival is usually culminated with worship and thanksgiving at the Benin traditional church, Holy Aruosa.