The managing director, Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu said the agency arrested 186 persons in the last two months for illegal entry into the nation’s airports. Yadudu, who was the guest speaker at the 2019 Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Leadership Impact Programme and Dinner in Lagos, titled: “Airport Operations and Standards of Safety in Nigeria,” said that security was a very difficult thing to manage According to him, some of the 186 people arrested played mentally unstable, adding that arresting 186 people in two months was like almost getting close to four or five each day arrested. He added, “A function of security has to be proactive. All the vulnerability we know, as we are trying to resolve them, cover it; but new ones will always open.There is no security that has no new challenges across the world.They always has new challenges. “Secondly, our operational environments, we have issues of encroachment, people coming to the airport not for encroachment alone but vandalisation. I mean active vandalisation. FAAN will secure the airport, secure the fence and do everything, put surveillance but somebody will just come, destroy and go away. Active vandalisation and encroachment and this is not something I do believe happens in other environments when it comes to developed countries.” However, he said that FAAN was putting everything in place to ensure the airport was more secure, and that the security of the airport was not compromised. He promised that in the next 12 months, there would be change in the operations of airports. Earlier in his keynote address, the president of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport of Nigeria (CILT), Mr. Ibrahim Jibril, who was represented by the Institute’s deputy president, Alban Igwe, said there were numerous investment opportunities abounding in the aviation sub-sector in the areas of developing perishable cargo terminals for export, development of aerotropolis, construction of facilities for maintenance repair organisations, or more direct involvement in the operation of maintenance hangar facilities, and commercialisation of aviation training organisations (ATOs) to deliver specialised trainings and capacity building of pilots, air traffic controllers (ATCs), simulators, technicians, aircraft maintenance engineers and crew.
He said much as some of these were already being taken care of, saying there was still room for improvement. He added, “Thus, it is important for Nigeria to intensify efforts at strategically implementing such positive policies that will continue to result in the growth and expansion of our transportation sector, especially with the record of improving safety and increasing passenger volume in Nigeria’s local air travel, coupled with the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) and the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) that Nigeria is a signatory to.” Moreso, he said building capacity for efficient logistics and transport services in Nigeria was a cardinal objective in confronting the problems encountered in the efforts of developing the country. Presently, he said the services sector accounts for over 70 per cent of the global GDP. With the new turn in today’s world economy, he maintained that the role of logistics, transport and supply chain which form the bedrock of the service industry cannot be overemphasised and underrated.
In recognition of this fact, he disclosed that the present administration gives priority to the revival of the transport sector in its entire ramifications by the rehabilitation of existing transport infrastructure, provision of new ones as well as ensuring capacity building, while finding ways to improve financial capabilities.