Despite the high volatility seen in the Nigerian capital market for the year 2019, the listing of the biggest telecommunication companies, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa has helped in making the market capitalisation bullish, OLUSHOLA BELLO, writes The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) capitalisation closed the year 2019 on a positive side on the listing of MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa. This two listings on the NSE has a significant impact on the market capitalisation and on the ICT sector of the market. The listing of MTN boosted NSE market capitalisation by N1.8 trillion, while the listing of Airtel Africa boosted market capitalisation by N1.38 trillion. The listing of these two telcom companies reversed the downtrend observed in the market capitalisation since January. However, the All-Share Index for year 2019 as at December 12th went down by 15.46 per cent from 31,430.50 points on December 31, 2018 to close at 26,569.80 on December 12, 2019 on increased volatility and illiquidity that trigger persistent downturns. The equities market capitalisation, the total value of listed companies gained N1.103 trillion to close at N12.824 trillion on December 12, 2019 from the year opening of N11.721 trillion due to MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa listing. The Nigerian telecommunication sector is the largest segment of the Information and Communication sector. Nigeria has one of the largest telecom markets in Africa. The Nigerian telecommunication sector has evolved over the years to an oligopolistic market structure. The sector includes a strong multinational presence. The leading players are MTN, Airtel, Glo (a Nigerian multinational company) and 9mobile (formerly Etisalat). The sector over the years has contributed immensely to Nigeria’s economy and the lives of Nigerians. The advancement of mobile phone usage from basic phone telephony to new enhanced services. Data by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for first quarter (Q1), 2019, showed an increase in the telecommunications industry’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Nigeria. According to the statistics, this sector contributed 10.11 per cent to the country’s GDP during the Q1, 2019.  This is a 0.92 per cent increase from the 9.19 per cent recorded for the first quarter of last year. The CEO of NSE, Oscar Onyema stated that MTN Nigeria is the first of the big four telecommunication service companies to successfully list its shares on a Nigerian securities exchange, saying that “It serves as an example to other similarly situated companies and we encourage more of the telecommunication companies in Nigeria to explore the different opportunities for raising capital on the Exchange’s platform. “We believe that increased participation of indigenous companies in the capital market will improve credibility, entrench good corporate governance, transparency and sustainability in these companies as well as increase investors’ confidence both local and international.” Onyema also said that “This listing shows the confidence MTN Nigeria has in our platform, which has a total market capitalisation of N21.5 trillion across various asset classes. “In order to remain competitive, we have implemented far-reaching programmes that have improved market access and provided products that are aligned to investors’ needs. We have also implemented several transparency initiatives, which have significantly improved confidence in our market. “The NSE is positioned as a premiere listing destination for African corporates, governments and international issuers looking to access the capital market of the largest economy in Africa. We encourage other companies operating in the Telecommunication Industry to join MTN Nigeria by listing their shares on the NSE.” On the Airtel Africa listing, Onyema stated that this listing serves to deepen the telecoms and technology sector for investors and provides an opportunity for a wider group of Nigerians to be part of the African telecoms growth story. According to him, this listing is a promising development in Africa with Airtel Africa being the second company to have its ordinary shares listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the Nigerian Stock Exchange. This gives credence to the successful partnership between the two exchanges and we encourage similarly situated companies to explore the different opportunities for raising capital on the Exchange’s platform. He said that the NSE will continue to support the Telecom Industry and the real sector by promoting efficient capital formation and allocation, enabling industries to raise long-term funds for growth & expansion of their business to reduce unemployment and sustain Nigeria’s economic growth and development, saying that these are evident in the increasing number of capital market instruments traded on the exchange and the tremendous increase in the size of market capitalisation. CEO of MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman, said, “It gives me great pleasure to confirm that the official listing via the introduction of MTN’s shares on the NSE took place on May 16, 2019. “We appreciate the continued support afforded us by the government, regulators and people of this great nation. In particular, I would like to thank the staff and management of MTN Nigeria who worked tirelessly to make this day possible. This is just the beginning, we still intend to pursue a future Public Offer giving more Nigerians greater access to the MTN opportunity.” Group CFO of MTN, Ralph Mupita said, “As MTN Group we are very pleased that we are taking this first and important step towards increasing the local ownership of the company, and building the equity capital markets in Nigeria” Capital market stakeholders have said MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa listing on the NSE have boosted investors’ confidence and liquidity, even as the nation’s economy stands to benefit. The managing director of Cowry Assets Limited, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, said that the listing is a positive development for the nation’s capital market. According to him, I think it is a positive development for the capital market. Basically, MTN has the largest turnover in the economy. So, if we use that kind of basis, we have doubt MTN will be most capitalized equity in the Nigerian market but beyond being the most capitalized market, MTN will bring some level of participation to the companies listed on the Exchange. Speaking further he said, “Right now, we do not really have any strong telecommunication company listed on the NSE. The other telecom’s companies have been delisted. “So, I want to believe it will present with the opportunity to invest in the company to consumers they are really contributing to its turnover. Nigerians are paying for airtime. So, if you invest, you will be benefiting from your own consumption or expenditure. “All things being equal, it will be well received in the market and it will afford more Nigerians a lot to buy into the company they really have some form of consumer relationship with.” Professor of Finance & Capital Market, and head, Banking and Finance Department, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Prof Uche Joe Uwaleke speaking as a guest lecturer at the Capital Market Correspondent’s Association of Nigeria (CAMCAN), a quarterly forum in Lagos said, the listing on the NSE, by MTN and Airtel Africa, have boosted market liquidity and diversify offerings as the companies became the second and third most capitalised company in the market, after Dangote Cement Plc. Publicity Secretary of the Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria, PSAN, Mr Moses Igbrude, stated that the listing by MTN Nigeria, is a good development for investors in the Nigerian market. There is need to deepening the Nigerian capital market as stakeholders continued to call on companies doing business in Nigeria to list on Nigerian Stock Exchange. They have called for pass laws that would compel multinationals, oil and gas companies, telecommunication firms and privatised companies to list on NSE to deepen the market.