The Kogi State government has threatened legal action against the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) over its recent report which designated the state as the most corrupt in Nigeria. The state government described the report as a “dubious attempt to blackmail and blacklist the state by those scared by her rising economic profile and opportunities”. While demanding an unreserved apology from the NBS, the state government said it may have no choice than to seek legal redress to save the name of the State if it fails to provide the parameters for the rating. Director general of Media and Publicity to the state governor, Kingsley Fanwo who made the charge while briefing journalists in Abuja yesterday, said the Bureau has lost the “little credibility left in it”. He disclosed that the state government will soon produce facts to challenge the false report by the NBS. Fanwo said, “How can we be the most corrupt state when we have institutionalised strong mechanisms to check fraud in the system? It is unfortunate that the Bureau just looked through its office windows to cook the discredited report. “ In the last 47 months, we have strengthened our internal mechanisms to combat corruption in the system. We undertook a strenuous Staff Verification Exercise to exorcise Corruption from our civil service. “ The State Government has since digitalised the Civil Service. We granted autonomy to the tax administrative board, changing the name from the Board of Internal Revenue to the Kogi State Internal Revenue Service. Today, the Service is led by one of the most respected hands in the industry, leading to opening new vistas for higher revenue as a result of managerial innovations and blockage of leakages in the system. “Our accounting and auditing administration have been digitalised and made to be more effective, efficient and dynamic. “Sitting in their offices at the Central Business District in the FCT to write fiction will not be accepted by the Kogi State Government. We are the most transparent state in the federation and we deserve an award for that. “We are not unaware of some sinister political moves to discredit the state by some individuals for certain reasons. However, it is our responsibility to defend the integrity of our system and our openness to investments. No amount of blackmail and falsehood can halt our march to economic prosperity,” he said. He questioned the indices leading to the conclusions, saying nobody from the agency came to ask questions from relevant authorities in the state. “Like Budget, it is our hope that the NBS will be honorable enough to own up to its errors on the Corruption Index and tender unreserved apologies to the state”, he said