A non-governmental organisation, Search For Common Ground (SFCG) in conjunction with the UN Women and the government of Japan has empowered over 1770 female Internally Displaced persons (IDPs ) in Borno state. The IDPs who were earlier trained on rice parboiling techniques and other income generating activities were also trained on Leadership and Conflict Transformation, aimed at creating awareness about  the consequences of violence against women and girl-child in post- insurgency era. Speaking during the training at the weekend in Maiduguri , the Gender Specialist SGF, Tamwakat Gollit said the Leadership and Conflict Transformation session organised for the women after their economic empowerment is part of the activities marking the ” 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence” , a worldwide campaign that begun on November 25th and runs to December 10th this year. She said:” We have been working in Borno and yobe covering three local government areas which are Mafa, Jere in Borno state and Barde in Gashua local government area of Yobe state. ” We are training the women that we have empowered economically with a training tagged ” Leadership and Conflict Transformation which aims to cushion the effects that come with the Boko Haram insurgency, such as displacement and culture of silence against women even when their right is violated and issues of violence against women and girl-child. “The training is also aimed at giving the women soft skills such as Leadership skills that will help them in building their confidence, community mobilisation and how they can build their relationship for promotion of peace in their respective communities as they are resettled home. ” We have trained monitors who are Staff of Borno State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development , that will monitor the women and ensure that this women who have been trained step up what they have learnt to the other members from the over 59 cooperative societies in their respective areas ” Gollit further said. Speaking, one of the beneficiaries, Hajiya Burkar , said the empowerment programme has assisted her to make resources that has enabled her to return her children to school. She said prior to the empowerment, her children were out of school until she summoned courage and enrolled them in school, haven been blessed with a source of livelihood. She added that the present training on Leadership and Conflict Transformation will embolden her to take positive decision against issues affecting women and girl-child in her area.