The Oruwari (Briggs) House of Abonnema in Akuku-Toru local government area of Rivers State, has said it will appear before a Ghana High Court on December 17, 2019, to seek for the release of its late Paramount ruler, High Chief Olu Benson Lulu-Briggs. Lulu-Briggs, a philanthropist and oil magnate, allegedly died in Accra, the Ghanaian capital on December 27, 2018, while on vacation. However, legal actions instituted by his wife, Dr. Sienye Lulu-Briggs, against the family in an Accra High Court, have made it impossible for the remains of the late traditional ruler to be given a befitting burial. Addressing newsmen in Port Harcourt yesterday, son of the deceased, Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs, said their decision to approach the Ghanaian Court is for the Court to compel their step-mother to release the remains of their father. Lulu-Briggs said: “We are here today because we don’t have th mortal remains of our father. He died in Accra and we didn’t know that he was travelling to Ghana. Our father’s wife has refused to release his remains to the family for a befitting burial. “As chiefs, we have gathered here to respond positively. On December 27, 2019, it will be exactly one year after his death. On December 17, we will be approaching a Court in Accra to propose to it to compel out step-mother to release our father’s remains to us. “If the Court grants out request, all the Chiefs will travel to Accra on December 27, 2019, to receive the remains of our father. We will deposit his remains in Port Harcourt and beginning preparations to give him a befitting burial on January 25, 2020. “If our step-mother is serious about the burial of father, she should withdraw all legal actions against the family in Ghana. We can’t plan for the funeral if we don’t have custody of our father’s remains.” Lulu-Briggs, who commended Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for his concern over the delay in the burial of the late paramount ruler, apologized to the governor for the alleged insult on him by their step-mother. He said: “We thank Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike for interventions to ensure that this matter was resolved and our father given a befitting burial. He held meetings with us for three times, with one of the meetings lasting for about eight hours. The governor called me and said out step-mother insulted him. On behalf of the family, we apologise to him. “We are glad that the state governor had promised a state burial for our father. We will liaise with the state government to give our father a befitting burial. We will please with the state government to work with us on the four weeks we have planned for the burial.”