The Nigerian telecommunications sector made significant strides in 2019, recording major achievements in eradication of call masking which was causing telecom networks to lose about N70 billion, licencing of Value-Added Services (VAS) aggregators, use of TV White Spaces spectrum for rural broadband coverage. In this piece, CHIMA AKWAJA, recalls the key milestones. Saving N70bn From Call Masking Activities The year 2019 began with regulatory action by the telecom regulator to put an end to the menace of call masking and call refiling. The Nigerian Communication enforced the deployment of a new technology solution across the networks to nip the fraud in the bud. Call masking is when inbound international calls terminate in Nigeria as local number which is a security concern, reduces competition and causes loss of revenue to telecom operators and the government. Strict compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Nigerian Communications Commission ( NCC); imposition of appropriate sanctions by the on licensees involved in call refiling and masking activities; and suspension of numbering plans of some perpetrators and withdrawal of all their inactive numbering plans were introduced to save the industry from a N70 billion revenue loss. According to Prof Umaru Danbatta, executive vice chairman, NCC, the development and institution of new reporting requirements on interconnecting licencees that makes it easy and seamless to quickly identify perpetrators of call masking and the Proof of Concept (PoC) commenced in July 2018 with the deployment of technology solutions to monitor, report, apprehend and block SIMs being used for SIM boxing activities and prevent SIM lines from being used for call masking activities. Leveraging TVWS For Rural Connectivity Further to the strategic implementation of its 8-Point Agenda, the Commission, earlier in 2019, partnered with the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and other industry stakeholders to discuss the introduction of television white spaces (TVWS) in order to develop a framework for effective utilisation of TV spectrum to take services to the unserved and under-served communities in the country. TVWS is the unused broadcast spectrum which can be deployed in the telecommunications sector to provide cost-effective broadband services to people in the rural, underserved and unserved areas of the country towards achieving universal access and universal service in line with the country’s digital agenda. The collaboration with the NBC was in line with the fifth pillar of the NCC’s 8-Poing Agenda focusing on facilitating strategic collaboration and partnership with necessary government agencies and stakeholders. The initiative for the use of TVWS in Nigeria mid-wifed by the Ministry of Communications, following approval for the use of the TVWS technology by the National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) will further help the Commission to deliver on its mandate of ensuring universal access to telecoms services in the rural, unserved and underserved areas. “Ensuring that all Nigerians are connected is our priority at the Commission,” Danbatta stated at the stakeholders’ forum held in Abuja on TVWS. “We are continuously in a quest to achieving rural connectivity goal and this quest has led us, as a Commission, into embarking on several initiatives to actualise this pervasive connectivity objective in Nigeria.” Licensing of VAS Aggregator Licences The dynamism of the industry led to the restructuring of telecoms Value–Added Service (VAS) market for greater growth. Under the watch of the erudite scholar, the Commission has also witnessed a recalibration and repositioning of the sector’s value–added services (VAS) segment, a move that has helped to sanitise the industry. The sub-sector’s current value is estimated at $200 million with potential to grow to over $500 million in the next few years. In line with the restructure, the NCC, in 2019, has awarded the Value-Added Services Aggregator licences to ten (10) companies to provide VAS services.  It is hopeful that the VAS Aggregator licence will improve innovation, local content, employment opportunities and increase in income stream to both network operators and content developers. SIM Registration Review And National Security The SIM Registration project supports the agenda to “Facilitate Strategic Collaboration and Partnership” by fostering a synergy/partnership with security agencies towards the adoption and usage of technology innovations to improve security in the country. The programme is designed to facilitate the registration of all telephone subscribers in the country to mitigate security concerns on the challenges of tracking criminal uses of telephones in the country through Identity and security management and; to ensure the establishment of a credible database of SIM Card subscribers as an enabler to the overall Citizen Identification System. During the period under review, over 24 million validly registered subscriber records were scrubbed/ cleaned-up (deduplicated) via Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) in fulfilment of the mandate to establish a credible database of telephone subscribers. The database was also upgraded with additional features such as “Add SIM” and “Update SIM” functionalities as well as the National Identity Number (NIN) field for an improved SIM Registration process and ease of harmonization of SIM registration subscriber data with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) when the NIN Regulations come into force. Consequently, in line with the Federal Government directive, the Commission is collaborating with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) towards the implementation of the Mandatory Use of National Identification Number Regulations which stipulates the mandatory use of NIN for transactions such as SIM registration, reactivation/retrieval. Promoting Next-gen 5G Revolution In Nigeria The Commission in November, this year, provided the regulatory platforms for telecoms operators to begin trail of 5G in the country. By this experiment, the NCC became the first telecoms regulator to begin their technology revolution journey in the whole of West Africa. Already, MTN Nigeria, has conducted trial of 5G in Abuja, Calabar and Lagos under the supervision of the Commission. The mid-wifing of 5G technology trial in Nigeria this year by the Commission is sequel to workshop it organized in the last quarter of 2018, in collaboration with the Global System for Mobile Communications Association (GSMA) to discuss the prospects and challenges of Next-Generation Networks (NGN) such as the Internet of Things (IoT), 5G, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Big Data, among others, in the nation’s telecoms industry. With the trial of 5G ongoing, preparatory to the actual commercial launch starting from 2020, industry stakeholders have commended the Commission for its proactive regulatory role in advancing the country’s technology revolution through 5G which is going to positively impact all sectors of the economy. No doubt, 5G which will offer better download speed and latency use of more applications (IoT-enabled services), needs robust broadband infrastructure to ride on and the NCC, through the InfraCo initiative is enabling this. Combating E-waste Early in 2019, the Nigeria unveiled regulation on e-waste and guidelines on distaste recovery at a stakeholder engagement forum held in his office in Abuja. On the e-waste regulations, E-Wastes are electrical or electronic equipment that is waste, including all components, sub-assembles and consumables that are part of the equipment at the time the equipment becomes waste. Apart from their solid and non-biodegradable nature, some of the toxic elements found in e-waste include lead, mercury, lithium and other ozone-depleting substances. “A recent report by World Economic Forum (WEF) indicates that electronic waste (e-waste) is now the fastest-growing waste stream in the world. It is estimated that this waste stream spiked by about 48.5 million tonnes in 2018. In Nigeria, due to low Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita/low income and the desperate quest for information, it is estimated that 75 per cent of electronic devices and equipment imported into the country are irreparable and toxic junk. In line with its regulatory mandate and to keep pace with efforts at managing e-waste-related issues, therefore, the Commission developed the draft regulations on e-waste. According to EVC, the draft regulations represent a holistic intervention aimed at providing clarity and delimiting the responsibilities of various stakeholders in the e-waste value-chain within the telecommunications industry. While the draft is industry-specific, it, nonetheless, keys into other initiatives at national and international levels.