Unless urgent steps are taken, the time gained in the National Assembly’s passage of the 2020 Appropriation Bill may be lost as the legislature is yet to transmit it to President Muhammadu Buhari for his assent. Last Thursday, the Senate and the House of Representatives passed the 2020 Budget after they added N264 billion to it. The Senate had concurred with the Lower House on the increase by N264 billion and passed the document. But six days after, the budget bill is yet to be transmitted to President Buhari and there are fears that NASS may not do so before embarking on the Christmas and New Year break tomorrow. President Buhari presented the N10.33 billion budget to the National Assembly on October 8, 2019, and in line with their promise to return the country to the January-December budget cycle, the lawmakers passed it on a record time of three months. After a series of committees’ meetings and public hearings on the document, the lawmakers jacked up the budget to N10.59 trillion. They raised the oil price benchmark from $55 to $57, statutory transfers moved from N556.7billion to N560.479 billion, debt servicing was slashed from N2.748 trillion to N2.725 trillion, recurrent expenditure was also cut from N4.880 trillion to N4.842 trillion while capital expenditure rose from N2.114 trillion to N2.465 trillion. The fiscal deficit of the budget is N2.28 trillion while deficit/GDP stands at 1.52 per cent. While Nigerians are eagerly waiting for the president to sign the appropriation bill into law, LEADERSHIP learnt that the document was still in the custody of the National Assembly. However, no reason was given for this development by the legislature, an official of the e presidency confirmed yesterday that the appropriation bill passed by NASS was yet to get to the president’s table for his assent. The Office of the Liaison Officer of the President to the National Assembly (Senator Babajide Omoworare) also admitted that the document had not been transmitted to President Buhari. The official said: „I can confirm that the document has not been transmitted to the president. If the document is transmitted and signed by the president, we will come and address you (journalists).“ The Senate spokesman, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, did not pick calls made to his mobile phone and text message on the matter. Before NASS passed the budget, the chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriation, Senator Jibrin Barau (Kano North), had said that his members worked harmoniously with the Executive arm of government in the processing of the bill which ensured the collaboration of the two arms in the utilisation of additional revenue projections to fund/improve the funding of some critical projects which were not adequately captured in the budget proposals presented by the president due to constraints. “Consequently, the increase allowed for interventions in critical areas such as national security, road infrastructure, mines and steel development, health, social needs, and water, among others. This is also in line with the budget thrust of government which is focused on growing development and sustainable growth,“ Barau said. He said that the committee adopted the 2020-2022 Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) as approved by the National Assembly. Following a clause-by-clause consideration of the report at the Committee of the Whole, the Senate returned back to plenary and passed the 2020 Appropriation Bill.