The Civil Society Groups for Good Governance (CSGGG) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to nullify the newly appointed Niger Delta Development Commission Board claiming that the composition of the board contravenes the act setting up the Commission. The group, which said it is an assemblage of over 180 civil society groups and charged with advocacy for transparency and good governance, in a statement duly signed by its President, Comrade Ogakwu Dominic, said going by the provisions of the NDDC act on rotation of the chairman and managing director, the new chairman should come from Delta, not Edo and the new managing director should come from Bayelsa and not Delta. He explained that this problem is responsible for over a hundred cases in court on the board issue and further emphasis that in line with global best practice, it is ideal that for a new board to be constituted, it must be in line with the NDDC act and only after the forensics. Part of the statement reads: “It is sordid that there are lots of contracts awarded and paid for but were not done and we demand for refund of the funds and prosecution of all liable persons. We find it curious that the national assembly, some of whose members were accused of taking money for multiple contracts running into billions, seems disinterested in calling its members to account for the contracts they took but is rather pushing for a board whose composition violates the law. “It is rather unfortunate that the national assembly seems disinterested in the forensics to clean up the commission and report back to the president for proper constitution of a new board in line with the act for top notch service delivery to Niger Deltans. “Imagine a situation where over 2 billion naira is withdrawn in a single day for spurious contracts and so called emergency road works in multiple times. The stench that shall come out from the forensics shall amaze Nigerians. “We however commend President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs for the unflinching and timely efforts put in place to salvage the commission from several corrupt practices through the proposed forensic audit. “President Mohammadu Buhari, Minister of Niger Delta, should issue the interim management committee more time and appropriate logistics to independently oversee the said period of forensic audit, as on our part as CSO’s and Nigerians of goodwill, we must ensure that all plans or efforts by evil perpetrators to frustrate the process must be met with stiff resistance,” he added. The President however noted that the immediate dissolution of the current NDDC board has become sacrosanct and very germane for the progress of the Niger Delta community, and also to give more weight to the current government fight against corruption, as the country cannot afford to put new wine in old wineskins lest it becomes brittle and lose its taste.