Stakeholders in the power sector met recently in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, to brainstorm on lasting solutions to the electricity challenge. RICHARD NDOMA gives insight on the meeting. Electricity, a critical part of the economy is one commodity that hardly gets to all Nigerians. Despite the huge capital investment sunk in that sector by the federal government over the years, only a few are privileged to have access to electricity. If  there is any  social amenity whose  failure has  inflicted economic hardship on many Nigerians across the 36 states of the country, is electricity. The failure  of power generating/distribution companies to make electricity available to its consumers say for a period of 24 hours has led to many households particularly those whose businesses hinge on electricity as source of its power to live in penury perhaps because of the fact that such households lack the money to go for  a lister generator which is like an alternative means of power supply for survival. Narrating his ordeal, a technician who resides at White House by Ekondo lane, Calabar South LGA of Cross River State said that it is quite disheartening when artisans who had been paying electricity bills do not see electricity at all in the last three months. He added that erratic power supply had caused his inability to renew his house rent because his business had gone anticlockwise due to erratic power supply. “How can I meet up when there isn’t constant power supply to enable me operate my branding machine to do the shoes I used to manufacture?” He asked. Another resident Mr. Robert Bassey who claimed to have had it rough due to unavailability of 24 hours power, said that in the last three months electricity had not been seen in his area, a situation that has inflicted hardship on small and medium scale entrepreneurs who own barbing saloons and are into the business of sharpening of knives. He said that the absence of Electricity has caused businesses to fold up as the owners of the businesses lacked the money not just to buy power generating sets but to fuel them. Bassey lamented “Power distribution companies have a track record of disappointing their consumers” just as he called on authorities concerned to look into the plight of the residents of the area. According to Mrs. Lucy Nkeruwem, she moved from her former residence because of erratic power supply. She noted that while her current area of residence doesn’t have the best of power supply it was far better from where she resided despite the huge bill she pays for electricity not consumed. President Muhammadu Buhari on assumption of office assured Nigerians that all the wrongs regarding supply/consumption of Electricity would be corrected. To actualise the president’s dream of speedy economic development/ growth, stakeholders in the power sector headed by the minister for power, Engr. Saleh Mamman and his junior colleague, minister of state, Goddy Jedy-Agba led top management staff on a two-day brainstorming retreat in Calabar. They deliberated on issues affecting the sector with a view to finding lasting solutions. In his remarks at the opening ceremony, Goddy-Jeddy-Agba, stated that the economy of Nigeria is  tied to power and described power ministry as the nucleus (the brain box ) to the nation’s economy. The Dan Jurin Nupe called on  all hands to be on deck in order to take the nation’s economy to a higher pedestal adding that it is the power sector that energises other sectors and as such needed full attention. The power minister stressed upon assumption in office, that he discovered the lack of synergy  between agencies and the ministry staff, adding “some individuals have also refused to adopt technology and computers as very relevant work tools for functionality.’’ On why the first top management retreat is convened, he said that the forum is organized  to  brainstorm on how to address the existing operational gaps between the ministry and its agencies, and also to enhance good working relationship that would help in the implementation of government policies. In his words Agba said, “I cannot over-emphasise the fact that the entire nation has its eyes glued firmly on the power sector. Ironically, the power sector can be likened to the human eye. “Once the eyes are closed, darkness takes over. However, I strongly believe that at the end of this retreat, the eyes will be wide open and light shall be fully restored.” In his presentation, Minister of Power, Engr.  Saleh Mamman, stressed that with the retreat, debate would be generated on how to arrive at certain ideas that if fully implemented, the problems faced in the power sector can be drastically reduced. He urged the participants to think critically so as to generate discussions that will aide the stakeholders take the sector to enviable heights. Also, speaking at the event, Acting permanent secretary ministry of power, Engr. Hammed Abdu advised top management staff of the sector to come up with issues that can take the sector to enviable heights. He said that with electricity the sky remains the limits of all, adding that electricity remained an integral part to societal development. However, in a communique issued after the end of the two- day retreat organised, stakeholders, called on the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to release the statutory funds meant  for rural electrification to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) to enable the agency meet up with its obligations as provided for under the EPSR Act 2005. The communique maintained that stakeholders decided to draw attention of NERC with regards to release of funds meant for rural electrification by REA, given the fact that provisions of that nature exist under the EPSR Act  of 2005. The communiqué called for policy directives and synergy between the agencies, departments / parastatals operating under the ministry of power and called for property monitoring of activities  for efficient service delivery. The communiqué further solicited for recognition of the Human Capital Development which according to participants should be seen as a  hallmark for efficient/ effective performance, of the departments and agencies  and called for  collaboration / alignment with NAPTIN. Part of the communique reads,”To ensure  better funding for effectiveness of training in the Power Sector Value Chain, there is the need to bring NAPTIN back as a Market participant under the Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO). The communique which hinges on the theme, “Building Synergy for Effective Service Delivery in the Power Sector” stated, “There is need for the Ministry to fast-track effective implementation of the “willing buyer, willing seller” policy of the present Administration. The participants advocated for recapitalization/ repositioning of Electricity Distribution Companies for effective service delivery and called for the use of smart meters, stressing that availability of smart meters  will forestall  the problem of energy theft, adding that smart meters will improve collection efficiency and liquidity in the electricity market. The communique called on ministry of Power to intervene in the interpretation and clarification of  Electricity Power Sector Reform Act of 2005, and Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency Act of  2015  to make clarification on issues regarding inspection, testing and certification of electrical installation in NESI with regard  to the mandates of Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA)  so that it can enlighten each body on  their  statutory functions. The expectation is that the power ministry will be strategic in dealing with the age long challenges in the sector which will in turn transform the country.