The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has expressed its readiness to intervene in the over 280 communities submerged with water in the Niger Delta region. The commission listed Bayelsa, Delta, Rivers, Ondo, Akwa Ibom, Imo and Abia among the most affected. Giving the assurance while speaking with newsmen in Abuja, the commission’s Executive Director of Project, Dr Cairo Ojougboh, stressed that the NDDC could no longer sit and watch while the affected communities went through pains. Ojougboh said the commission had started interfacing with the Ministry of Works and Housing to ensure that things were done according to statuesque, adding that the commission was now more focused to deliver on its mandate. He added that the commission was working to address the issue by doing everything humanly possible to ensure that persons in the affected communities were resettled and sent back to their homes. “You know that the rains had just stopped and the flood is receding, most of the indigenes of Niger Delta are now in Internally Displaced Persons camps (IDP) and will have to go back home. When they get home, they will find their homes occupied by dangerous insects and reptiles, including snakes, and their properties would have been damaged. “So we have to find a way of resettling them, these are the things the commission is looking at now. We are not going to stop there, we most project into the future and find out how we can stop this catastrophe from happening every year, because every year, it is the same story and these are the issues in the Niger Delta.” Ojougboh further said it was currently going through reformation to ensure more participation between it and the ministry, even as he added the commission had stabilised and functioning properly with a defined focus on delivering on its mandate. According to him, the function of the commission and the Ministry of Works and Housing are intertwined, adding that it will work with the ministry to deliver its mandate but noted that one of the commission’s challenges was conflict between tiers of government with regards to contract award for road construction in parts of the country. “You go to some states, you find out that contract that had been awarded by the NDDC is also awarded by the state and Local Government. And you go to some places, you find out that the NDDC is on a road, and the Ministry of Works and Housing is also on the same road. We need to know where everybody is, so we don’t pay contractors twice for jobs that had been done. These are the areas where the ministry and the commission must cooperate and collaborate,” he said.