Traditional textbook is not becoming popular. Students are gradually going cold about the idea of having to consult the textbook each time they need a knowledge. The managing director of ESoft Contents Ltd, Mr Thomas Ikuedojo, speaks with OLUDELE A. SHALOM on the importance of technology to better learning process in Nigeria and other matters How did you get into the education business? Though we operate an IT Firm, we focus more on education, so any technology regarding education is our business.
When we came into existence, one of the things we started with was to help schools build what we call smart school. Smart School is the idea of using technology to teach in schools. We understand that education pushes innovation. Without education, there will be no innovation. The better the education, the better the technology and vice versa. It was in consideration of the need for technology to boost our education system in Nigeria that we created Smart School, a technology that enables our education system compete with that of the developed countries. From there we created our product called Exammate. What is your motivation?
We have observed, with dismay, the level at which the value and quality of education in Nigeria is deteriorating. Not because we don’t have the best teachers, or willing students, but because technology is not applied adequately or it’s even absent completely in some cases. Some of us here had the privilege to school abroad, so we know how easy it is over there to acquire knowledge. It is so difficult for a typically Nigerian student. We see the need for our children to get the best here in Nigeria, without necessarily having to travel abroad. So we went into research and came up with our products one of which is Smart Class. How does Smart Class works?
The idea around Smart class is classroom that uses technology to pass on knowledge. If you notice, the kids of nowadays are technology prone. They love technology, they love gadgets, they want to look at the phone, they want to watch the screen, and we know that education too is going in that direction. So what we are helping the classroom to do is, beyond the chalkboard and the chalk, how do we bring in technology to pass on knowledge in a better way than the traditional way of teaching? That is what we refer to as smart class. Did you get feedback from users of Smart Class?
Yes; it’s been a fantastic journey. When we started six years back, although there were enough challenges we faced back then, one which has to do with internet. But now, we have given a technology that works offline in our product called Exammate. So Exammate is in CD form?
Yes, the first version of Exammate works on computer and we put it on DVD so that user can install it on their computer. But later on, we released the mobile version. Because as mobile phone was becoming cheaper and getting more popular. It became imperative to have a mobile version of our product as well, which users can download from google playstore.
About Two years ago, we considered that traditional textbook is not becoming popular. I know that was what we studied with, everybody used textbooks. But there are challenges with textbooks: it’s not interactive enough, it is also not engaging, it does not always draw the interest of students and sometimes makes learning process tiresome. Putting all that into consideration, we tried improving the process of learning beyond the textbook. So when developed what is more or less like a video textbook and an interactive digital textbook, in such a way that it can appeal to the new generation, the way they want to learn. We noticed that what a child sees, what a child touches and what a child interacts with, stays longer in the memory of a child. We are grateful to partner with the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC); it makes sense to partner with them since they are the one in charge of Nigerian school curriculum. So all our contents are based on the government approved curriculum. We launched this product few days ago, and we are grateful to have the executive secretary of NERDC ably represented. How does Studymate work?
It is a complement for the existing textbooks. when you go through a traditional classroom, a teacher takes a topic, takes the chalkboard, and teaches, but you observe that sometimes, the students get lost in the process due to distractions, and when this happens, it is almost difficult for a student to say, “Sir, please can you go back to explain that”, this is because there are lots of factors against the teacher – time, other classes, and so on. So the teacher could simply reply the student, “Go consult your textbook”. When the child gets home, the textbook is even more difficult. It is not interactive, there is nobody to explain a certain line. So how do we make every child put his teacher in his pocket and move around with it to enable him learn anywhere? That is what Studymate does. We called teachers into our studio. they used the technology we set up to teach, answering all the possible questions students may ask while in class. We have our wonderful e-learning studio where we captured all the knowledge while the teachers were teaching, using our technology. Not just the knowledge, we also went into what we call knowledge check. So after every lesson, a child gets some few questions to check whether he understood all he has heard. We imbedded all that in Studymate which makes it so wonderful. The first version works on desktop. We researched further for an innovative way of packaging this mobile app in such a way that they don’t need to actually download it over the internet, and then we came up with this genius innovation, where all they need is an SD Card. Insert that SD card into any mobile device, be it phone, tablet, laptop or any mobile devices, it doesn’t matter anymore. Another beautiful thing about Studymate I also want to mention is – a lot of content are out there; people just do content, but one thing they don’t pay attention to is that textbooks don’t just exist, they exist for a reason and if you take away the reason why they are in existence, you will end up leaving a gap in the chain of knowledge, because reading is part of knowledge. Our ‘note’ sesion makes Studymate interactive, engaging; they can pause, rewind, and participate. How many schools have you partnered with as at now?
I may not be able to place a number immediately, but I can tell you that we have over 100 schools that are already using our software. A lot of those schools are already using Exammate, so they are already our partners, which makes it easy to introduce Studymate to them. What are your challenges?
The main challenge we have is funding. We have spent a lot of money to put Studymate together. You know some of us that had the privilege to school abroad, have been exposed to the systematic way of passing on knowledge to make it easy to absorb. We have brilliant children in Nigeria, and the best teachers in public schools I must confess, but they are not given the enabling environment to perform well. Imagine children sitting on the floor in schools to receive lectures. Imagine teachers without any gadget to keep themselves updated. With just a few more money, we can change the narrative of education in Nigeria. We have passion for what we are doing. Government schools can be better, teachers can perform better, students there can acquire the required knowledge in a more interesting way. We need to integrate technology into our education system. Advice
Yes, we just need the Nigerian government to see education as the bedrock of any nation. Yes, this government is trying, but should still do more. Some of our users didn’t believe that a product as ours could be made in Nigeria. But we have intelligent IT experts in Nigeria who are underutilised.
For our country to develop, we need the right education, and to achieve the right education, it can’t be without the right technology. If you put the right technology in education, the knowledge stays. Let us build smart classrooms also, and not only structures. Children can learn from home or anywhere. Government should partner with relevant companies to make our education work in Nigeria. I must say this, that although we have the best teachers in public schools, but the quality of education given to those children are way too low, compared to what they need to be able to compete with other students from private schools. This is simply because the best technology to make learning process easy and interesting for students, is with the private schools, regrettably. That is where the gap is. Government should see to this.  