In this piece UMAR MOHAMMED writes on the face-off between Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State and his predecessor, Abdul-Aziz Yari, over repeal of the law granting certain privileges to former political office holders in the state In recent times, pages of national newspapers have been flooded with series of stories from Zamfara state, starting with the threat of the Governor Bello Matawalle to order for the arrest and prosecution of his predecessor in office, Abdul-Aziz Yari, to the leaked letter of the former governor requesting for the payment of his bogus pension amounting to 10 million naira for monthly upkeep. The bandits attack at Karaye village in Gimmi Local Government which claimed 14 lives might have sparked off the crisis as the governor alleged an under-hand  of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the attack. Governor Matawalle however, made his suspicion public by declaring his intention to order for the arrest of the former governor, Yari and any of his supporters found to be involved in aiding banditry in any form. His threat attracted the reaction of the Zamfara state chapter of the APC where the party expressed reservation over the governor’s allegations against the former governor and APC supporters. Reacting to the governor’s outburst on the recent attack, Secretary to the APC publicity committee, Alhaji Ibrahim Danmaliki, described it as persistent political and leadership miscarriage made manifest in Matawalle’s administration from the time he assumed position as governor. The party chieftain explained that Bello, in his efforts to hide his discrepancies, has wasted precious time on frivolous issues, making false accusations against the opposition elements and insincere promises that were never fulfilled. He said the governor, out of sheer political intolerance and abuse of democratic liberty, had once publicly threatened to personally walk to the private residence of Yari, now the state APC leader and arrest him. He said, “if as a self-acclaimed police officer, he arrest Abubakar Yari ”in which personal prison custody will he detain him?” Danmaliki recollects that when Emir of Maru was arrested, he was unlawfully detained in the Government House for several weeks, allegedly on the order of the governor, whose case, he claimed should have legally been handled outside Government House premises. ”When did the Government House become part of the national prisons in the country? ” the spokesman asked. Expressing a challenge that every APC supporter in Zamfara is waiting to see how the governor will arrest and maltreat members for exercising their constitutional democratic right. The APC chieftain also faults the governor for allegedly failing to fulfill promises he purportedly  made for the speedy construction and completion of the much awaited airport and the much celebrated construction of a five star hotel as well as many other projects. He advised the governor to honourably resign his position and leave before the public begins to notice a gross failure and discrepancies in his administration that can land him in irreversible regret. Earlier, Matawalle wondered why the former governor and his supports were against the peace initiative of his government. “It is worrisome some unscrupulous people engaged in posting pictures that are not true especially on the social media platforms in order to cause distraction and confusion in the state,” he said. According to him, government is set to take serious action against anyone found in the act of peddling lies or posting pictures that are not true reflections of the incidents and happenings in any part of the state. He further stressed the need for security agencies in the state to be watchful and arrest anybody found in such acts no matter how highly placed such persons or groups are in the society. “I have observed this was the third time the visit of the former governor, Yari, to his country home, which he considered a breach of peace,” he said. He further explained that security was the responsibility of all and wondered why some people such as the Yari and his followers are not happy with the current development in which the security of the state has been significantly improved. Matawalle, who was earlier billed to travel to Germany to discuss investments into the state had to cancel the trip because of the unfortunate incident that occurred in Karaye village of Gummi local government area that resulted in the loss of 14 innocent souls. He reassured that he would not compromise or allow some failed politicians to destroy the state for their personal interests. While the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) -led government was battling opposition APC on the issue of insecurity, a letter was leaked from the office of the former  governor, Alhaji Alhaji Abdul’Aziz Yari Abubakar, to governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle demanding for the payment of his N10 million monthly up keep allowance which went viral on social media and is currently eliciting shocks and outrage nationwide. Yari, in the letter alleged that Matawalle has refused to pay his pension and monthly upkeep allowances for the past four months, a situation he described as denial of his fundamental rights. The former governor in the letter dated October 17, 2019 with the captioned ‘Grant of Pension and other allowances for former governor, former deputy governor, former speaker and former deputy speaker of Zamfara state, said his request was pursuant to an amended law. “I wish to humbly draw your attention to the provision of the law on the above subject matter, which was amended and assented to on the 23rd of March 2019″, he said. Yari’s letter said the pension and upkeep allowances were not privileges that could not be paid. He said according to the pension, upkeep allowances are not in the category of privileges that can be truncated without any justifiable reason. According to the letter by Yari, the amended law provides, among other entitlements of the former governor, a monthly upkeep allowance of N10 million and a pension equivalent to the salary he was receiving while in office. Yari claimed that he had only paid his monthly pension two times since he left office. “You may wish to be informed that since the expiration of my tenure on the 29th of May, 2019, I was only paid the upkeep allowance twice i.e. for the months of June and July, while my pension for the month of June, has not been paid,” he said. Yari requested Governor Matawalle to kindly direct the settlement of the total backlog of the pension and upkeep as provided by the law. The leaked letter according to some people in the state is not only lamentable but a sign that he is selfish and does not want development for the state. A civil servant, Malam Kabiru Gusau said the governor and the outgone assembly members are the greatest enemy of the state. “After succeeding in squandering our resources for years, barely two months to leave office, Yari connived with his partners in crime at the ZSHA and came up with this dubious ‘act’ that would allow them to continue to shrink the state’s treasury even after office,” he said. He said the insistence of the former governor that the state must continue to pay him pension equivalent to the salary he was receiving as a governor and additional upkeep allowance of N10 million on monthly basis is too bad. A resident of Gusau, Jamilu Nafiu described the letter by Yari an act of heartlessness. “This cruel man who as a governor refused to pay 1, 400 civil servants whom he employed salary for 60 consecutive months with no explanation and also refused to pay Leave Grants for 7 years, coming now to demand for N10 monthly allowance,” he said. Nafiu added that Yari during his 8 years tenure refused to pay for students’ examinations fees for years and refused to pay pensioners their entitlements. “Yari suspended the only skills acquisition programme that was supporting our youth; suspended scholarship scheme; and also squandered more than N30 billion,” he alleged. Malam Bello Tahir said to save the state from further depletion of its resources, the new state assembly members most rise to the occasion by repelling the obnoxious act. “We call on the ZSHA to repeal this dubious ‘act’ and consider what is reasonable, and then channel the funds to primary education and healthcare,” he said.’ With the controversy that, greeted the leaked letter, the Executive arm sent a request to the State House of Assembly for the repeal of the law. House Leader, Hon Faruk Musa Dosara, urged his colleagues to as a matter of urgency consider the complete repeal of the law which provides the jamboree pay for the former political leaders of the state as it was detrimental to the retired civil servants who have not been paid their entitlements over the years. According to him, these category of past leaders were collecting over N700,000 million naira annually which he said the present state economy cannot accommodate. Hon. Tukur Birnin Tudu, who seconded the motion, said the abolition of the law was highly necessary as it is detrimental to the socio-economic well-being of our people. After serious deliberations and contributions from the members, Speaker, Nasiru Mu’azu Magarya, ordered the clerk to give the bill first and second reading and later the house went for a committee of a whole. Thereafter the bill went for a third reading and resolved that the bill has now been passed into law and will be sent to the governor for his assent. Following the passage of the new pension bill for the former governor, deputy, speaker and deputy speaker, Governor Matawalle assented to the new pension bill for the former governor, deputy, speaker and deputy speaker. While signing the new bill into law, Governor Matawalle said the new law would conform with the pension prescribed by the Revenue Mobilization and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMFAC). According to him, the money billed for payment as pension annually stands at over N700million. He regretted that the immediate past administration in the state left behind a pension liabilities to local government workers, primary school teachers and state civil servants amounting to about N10 billion apart from other liabilities such as promotion benefits, workers annual increment and the rest, which have put the state in a terrible financial quagmire. “The immediate past governor Yari is requesting the state government to pay him a whooping amount of N120 million annually made up of a monthly upkeep allowance of N10 million,” he added. He stressed that under the repealed law, the former governor ought to be collecting the exact amount he was collecting as his monthly salary while as governor which should continue for him for life as his pension. According to him, in addition to these, a former governor was supposed to get two vehicles to be bought by the state government and replaceable every four years; free medical treatment for former governor and his immediate families and a 5-bedroom house in any location of the choice of the former governor within the country. “The law also extended similar largess to the former deputy governors, former speakers of the state assembly, and former deputy speakers,” he added. Governor Matawalle said if allowed, it would overstretch the lean resources of the state. “While trying to return the state on a sound footing through the stoppage of armed banditry and other security challenges, the government was also busy to attract local and foreign investors to the state to gainfully engage its teeming unemployed youths,” he noted. Bello however, commended the members of the state assembly for quick response to the request to repeal the law.