Prominent Nigerians and groups yesterday commended the federal government for ordering the immediate release of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and the convener of #RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore. The minister of justice and attorney-general of the federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, said that the decision to release them was in compliance with the bail granted the two by the court. Malami, in a statement he personally signed yesterday, said: ‘’The Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation has reviewed the pending criminal charges against the duo of Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.) and Omoyele Sowore. Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of the right of the complainant/prosecution to appeal or further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions, particularly Section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. “However, my office has chosen to comply with the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or review of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. ‘’In line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and in compliance with the bail granted to Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) (as recently varied by the Court of Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State Security Services (SSS) to comply with the orders granting bail to the defendants and effect their release. ‘’The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land. ‘’I wish to reiterate again the utmost regard of my office for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria. This administration remains unrelenting in deepening the rule of law and the administration of justice in general,” Malami said. Amidst the celebration of the government’s directive, the presidency has spoken on Sowore. Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, in a statement said that some international news outlets had mistakenly been describing his release as that of a journalist. He said: “For the avoidance of doubt, the Buhari administration has never, since coming into office in 2015, detained a journalist, seized copies of newspapers or shut down a medium of information.” According to him, Sowore called for a revolution to overthrow the democratically elected government of Nigeria, saying He did so on television, and from a privileged position as the owner of a widely read digital newspaper run from the United States of America. “He founded an organisation, Revolution Now, to launch, in their own words, ‘Days of Rage’, with the publicised purpose of fomenting mass civil unrest and the elected administration’s overthrow. No government will allow anybody to openly call for destabilisation in the country and do nothing,” Shehu said. In a swift reaction, counsel to Dasuki, Mr. Ahmed Raji (SAN), described the decision as a welcome development. Raji said: ‘’We thank God Almighty. We thank the president of our country, the attorney-general of the federation, the entire judiciary and all Nigerians.  It is well with us. May God continue to be with all of us.” Also, constitutional lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome, said that the decision was a salutary for democracy, respect for fundamental rights of the citizens, and observance of rule of law. Ozekhome said that “it is never too late to take corrective measures and make amends. There is nothing like something good happening at a bad time, or something bad happening at a good time. This government is beginning to see the importance of the rule of law prevailing over the rule of the thumb and over the so-called national security, which is a euphemism for security of a government in power. ‘’The government should add Ibrahim El-Zakzaky to the list of detainees to be released because the whole world, aside government apologists and grovellers, see all of them as political prisoners. ‘’Respect for rule of law and citizens’ fundamental rights constitutes some of the key building blocks of democracy. Obedience to court orders, however, distasteful, constitutes the irreducible minimum of a civilised nation,” he said. CAN, ACF Welcome Liberty For Dasuki, Sowore The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) also hailed the government for the release of Dasuki and Sowore as directed by the Federal High Court, Abuja. In a statement issued yesterday in Abuja by the CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, he described the gesture as a Christmas gift to the populace and a new dawn for the country’s democracy. The statement reads in part: “We are very happy with the decision of the federal government to release the duo of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki and the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore as mandated by the Federal High Court, Abuja. “We appreciate the attorney-general of the federation and the minister of justice Malami for his intervention and counsel. We will not cease to pray for President Muhammadu Buhari and his team for a successful tenure of office. Nigeria should be a pacesetter for the continent in everything good, being the giant of Africa in the abundance of human and material resources,” CAN said. CAN added that as long as the federal government continues to respect the rule of law and the country’s constitution, it would continue to work with the government to ensure that there is peace and stability in the polity. Similarly, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) commended the federal government for releasing Dasuki and Sowore in compliance with the bail orders granted by the courts. In a statement issued by the forum’s national publicity secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu,  he said that “ACF appreciates this magnanimity of the federal government especially in this season of Yuletide and urges it to extend same to all those who have been granted bail by the courts and are still kept in detention by the security agencies.” Free Other Detainees, Abaribe Urges FG In the same vein, the Senate minority leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, urged the presidency to go the whole hog and release other detainees that the courts have granted bail. Abaribe, in a statement released by his media adviser, Uchenna Awom, said that though the release was encouraging, the presidency must go the whole length to release other detainees facing similar fate, especially Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. He said: “The presidency must seize the momentum and release the rest; they must not be seen to be selective or acting on impulse. Again the federal government must respect and adhere to the rule of law at times. “It is becoming obvious that the country may face certain isolation from the international community if the government continues to disregard valid court orders. We must respect all statutory institutions of government and pay greater attention to the principle of separation of powers. This is the way to go in a democracy,” Abaribe stated.