Chinyelu Obiasor, is the Chief Executive Officer of Chiblenders Green and the founder of young talent
discovery product , a non profit making organization that focuses on grooming children who are talented.
In this interview with YEMISI OKUNLOLA, she hints that her organization was the first organization in
Nigeria to attend the European contest for young scientists. Tell us about yourself I am the founder of young talent discovery product, it is a non profit making organization and we focus on the talent of getting children who are talented. We have been doing this for some time now before we ventured into food processing. Actually our reason for starting this food processing is because we want to be generating fund for our Non-Governmental Organization and as a talent programme, actually it has not been easy in the Nigerian environment, talking about the young talent discovering project we were the first organization in Nigeria to attend the European contest for young scientist, we went with about three state and we have done programme with UNESCO. We have collaborated with Ministry of Education, Ministry of Science and Technology, we have a lot but funding has always been a problem, that why we now ventured into food processing in other to generate money for what we are doing. How do you feel the government can help? In Nigeria, government on their own has tried. The issue is there is no money when it comes togovernment programme. Government has set up a lot of things. Central Bank of Nigeria has their own fund for entrepreneurial facilities for women in business. All these are everywhere but the problem is government doesn’t monitor most of this things. They are funds given out, but to monitor it is zero, why I said this is because most times they don’t get this money even the money that is meant for the entrepreneurs , banks are the ones managing this fund for CBN, banks are the ones giving this money to entrepreneurs, and they use this money for themselves. Sometimes when the government gives out a facility for 5 per cent bank will give it out at 16 per cent, 20 per cent and above, and you would be wondering what is the essence of government support. Well, we process dates, because we have our own experience. In the northern term dates is called DABINO perhaps it an Arabic term, dates has its own value like it an alternative to sugar, it a natural sweetener that why a lot of people now patronize it because they want to eat healthy. It is another opportunity for made in Nigeria product. In our company we are into cabbage flour, we also process cabbage into flour we call it Cabbage Fufu, because it can be made as fufu, you can also use it to bake. You can do a lot of things with it. We also have carrot flour too, we have Dates, we have instant Mixed Veggies, we have our teas we have so many things that we are trying to come up with. Another area that government needs to intervene again is this NAFDAC issue, most time NAFDAC delay people. That is the truth, and I give it to the government that people are now being socreative. I mean in terms of production or food processing, but NAFDAC have not been helping matters and I think government should look into it. So far, do you think you have achieved your goal? Well, No I can’t say I have achieved my goal because that is like saying I have gotten to the climax, but in all we are still pursuing, we are still trying. I know a day will come when I will say yes, I have reached somewhere, not that I have achieved my goal but I have reached somewhere. What inspired you to go into processing veggies? Last three years I was really sick, I didn’t even know what was wrong with me. I went to different hospitals they would tell me this tell me that, sometimes they will tell me it is malaria, it typhoid and all of that, but I told myself this is not me and I needed to cut down on some things, I used to be bulky but beautiful. I was bulky and beautiful, in fact it was my spirit that ministered to me, it just told me Jennifer you need to start eating healthy and I started eating veggies. I have to be honest with you I don’t like eating veggies but I started blending it, I used to have serious headaches. When I gave birth to my last baby, my blood pressure was something else, it was so bad that my doctor thought I was going to have stroke, but since I continued taking my veggies everything normalized. My blood pressure came down to normal, my headache disappeared, I can’t even explain how the headache left me till date, it was not just headache, sometimes I feel something ringing in my head but all that is gone now. So I decided to go into veggies processing so that other people can benefit from it, I must be honest with you, eating healthy sometimes is not easy, it really boring sometimes but one just has to adjust to it. Most people don’t like veggies but in the powdered form they will take it as tea. How do you source for your raw materials? Well, I get all my raw materials from the north because that is where most of the agricultural materials are found and I live in Abuja. We just talk to the farmers and we get it, to be honest they are not cheap, they are expensive compare to the foreign produce. This is as a result of the road condition. To be honest the roads in Nigeria are terrible which affects the price in market couple with the fact that Nigeria has low purchasing power. What is the essence of producing something at a high cost and sell it?! Actually what we are doing is not for everyone is for 35years and above. How long have you been in this food processing business? Well, I just started veggies processing this year but for other things I have been into the business for 15years. Where do you see yourself in few years? Oh my God! On the same road Dangote used. In fact I see 61 myself on the way already,