The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) in 2019 carried out a number of regulatory activities towards ensuring increased access to telecom services, increased consumer education and protection, boosting security of life and property, sanitising the industry while also supporting other initiatives that are aimed at boosting innovation in the telecom sector and continuously galvanizing the country’s overall economic growth. In this write-up, NKECHI ISAAC looks at some of its key activities in the year.  Improving quality of service on networks As part of its move to improve quality of service by promoting the availability of reliable, interoperable, rapidly restorable critical ICT infrastructure that are supportive of all required services, the commission, in the course of the year, reviewed 2G key performance indicators (KPIs) and development and definition of 3G/4G QoS KPIs for collocation service providers as well as internet service providers (ISP). During the year, the NCC also developed the New National Numbering Plan based on recent developments in the global telecommunications industry such as machine to machine (M2M) communications, the Internet of Things (IoT), Over-the-Top (OTT) and others. . The development of the new NNP, therefore, will help to provide numbers that will satisfy the needs of the projected 500 million Nigerians to be connected and about 1 billion globally-interconnected machines and devices by 2050; promote efficiency in the allocation of this scarce national resource; promote competition among service providers; eliminate the risk of running short of all categories of numbers; facilitate the introduction and development of new and innovative services and above all, encourage growth of the telecommunications sector and the attendant job creation and contribution to National Gross Domestic Product (GDP), among others.  Boost in consumer education, empowerment protection From January to October 2019, the commission received a total of 19,841 complaints from consumers out of which 17,851 were successfully resolved to the satisfaction of telecom consumers. The number of complaints resolved represents approximately 90 per cent of the total complaints received through the various channels of lodging complaints.  It also ensured continuous monitoring of the customer care centres of the service providers in the 36 states of the federation to ensure efficiency and effectiveness of the centres to the benefit of telecom consumers.  It also leveraged its various consumer education outreach programmes to educate a total of 35,124 telecom consumers on various issues such as how to avoid data depletion, importance of SIM registration, what to do during SIM replacement, need to protect telecom infrastructure, call masking, EMF, how to mitigate effects of cybercrimes etc. This was achieved through the consumer townhall meetings, consumer outreach programmes, telecom consumer parliament and trade fairs & exhibitions. With regard to unsolicited text messages based on frequent complaints received from consumers, the commission developed the DND 2442 short code to stop unsolicited text messages and calls. As at October 2019, a total of 22,356,919 consumers have activated DND service. Of this figure, 21,913,565 (98 per cent) are full DND subscriptions while only 443,354 (1.9 per cent) are partial DND.  Advancing broadband penetration As part of its efforts in advancing broadband penetration, which topped its 8-Poing Agenda, the commission has succeeded in issuing six InfraCos to drive the deployment of broadband infrastructure across the nation’s six geo-political zones and Lagos. The licensees include Raeana Nigeria Limited for the South-South Zone; O’dua Infraco Resources Limited for South-West Zone; Fleek Networks Limited for North-West Zone; Brinks Integrated Solutions for North-East Zone; MainOne Limited for Lagos Zone and Zinox Technologies Limited for the South-East Zone. The remaining licence for North Central Zone is being processed, according to the commission. This year, the commission made moves to seek Federal Government’s approval of the counterpart funding to be disbursed to the InfraCo to facilitate their deployment. The finding will, however, be given to them upon attainment of deployment milestones, according to the executive vice chairman of the NCC, Prof., Umar Danbatta. The InfraCos which is based on the Open Access Model (OAM) initiative of the commission will ensure there is, at least, one fibre access point for digital services across the 774 local government councils in the country. The commission gave then increased commitment.  Promoting ICT innovations In keeping with its ongoing tradition of driving technology innovations through funding relevant researches in tertiary institutions, the commission, in May 2019, announced N40 million endowment fund for Bayero University, Kano and the Federal University of Technology, Owerri. The fund will be utilized by the institutions for innovation, research and development in the digital space with an ongoing commitment to expand the list of benefiting institutions. Also, in June 2019, the commission again demonstrated its determination to facilitate research and innovation in the telecom industry in Nigeria by presenting the sum of N65 million to 11 universities in Nigeria for innovation, research and development to deliver research result and prototypes that are implementable, commercially-viable and capable of engendering innovation in different sectors of the economy.  Telcos’ listing in 2019 boosted capital market operations One of the remarkable developments witnessed on the economy this year was listing telecom companies on the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) with the credit going to the Danbatta-led commission. The listing was one of the positive results of a ‘no-nonsense’, outstanding and effective regulatory effort of the commission. The listing of MTN has, thus, served as tonic to other telcos to follow in the same direction such as the listing of Airtel. The commission essentially facilitated the landmark listing of the country’s largest telecommunication operator on NSE in line with its regulatory activities as enshrined in the Nigerian Communications Act (2003) and other subsidiary regulations to promote investment, create a level-playing field for all licensees, ensure compliance to existing telecom laws and facilitate delivery of top-notch quality of services (QoS) to the consumers.  Boosting security of lives and property via ECC The commission, this year, stepped up measures in its implementation of the Emergency Communications Centre (ECC) project to support President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s tripartite agenda, especially improving lives and property in the country. Other two agenda of the government are to improve economy and curb corruption. NCC’s drive in enhancing security of life and property through the emergency communications centre (ECC) project became fully activated under the leadership of Danbatta and it got a boost this year. The commission has, through increased efforts this year, fully activated and made operational, ECCs in 17 states across the country and the FCT, namely  FCT, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross Rivers, Imo, Anambra, Enugu and Adamawa states.  Leveraging TVWS for rural connectivity Further to the strategic implementation of its 8-Point Agenda, the commission, earlier in 2019, partnered the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and other industry stakeholders to discuss the introduction of television white spaces (TVWS) in order to develop a framework for effective utilisation of TV spectrum to take services to the unserved and under-served communities in the country. TVWS is the unused broadcast spectrum which can be deployed in the telecommunication sector to provide cost-effective broadband services to people in the rural, underserved and unserved areas of the country towards achieving universal access and universal service in line with the country’s digital agenda.  Promoting next-gen 5G revolution in Nigeria The commission in November, this year, provided the regulatory platforms for telecom operators to begin trial of 5G in the country. By this experiment, the NCC became the first telecom regulator to begin their technology revolution journey in the whole of West Africa. Already, MTN Nigeria, has conducted trial of 5G in Abuja, Calabar and Lagos under the supervision of the commission.  Combating E-waste, IT counterfeiting Early in 2019, the commission unveiled regulation on e-waste and guidelines on distaste recovery at a stakeholder engagement forum held in its office in Abuja. On the e-waste regulations, the commission sees e-waste as electrical or electronic equipment that is waste, including all components, sub-assembles and consumables that are part of the equipment at the time the equipment becomes waste. Apart from their solid and non-biodegradable nature, some of the toxic elements found in e-waste include lead, mercury, lithium and other ozone-depleting substances.  Strengthening corporate governance code with disaster recovery regulation As a corollary to the regulations on e-waste which was also unveiled during the year under review, it should be stated that the NCC disaster recovery guidelines is actually developed by the commission to strengthen corporate governance in the telecommunication industry.  Safeguarding national security via SIM registration review The SIM registration project supports the agenda to “facilitate strategic collaboration and partnership” by fostering a synergy/partnership with security agencies towards the adoption and usage of technology innovations to improve security in the country. The programme is designed to facilitate the registration of all telephone subscribers in the country to mitigate security concerns on the challenges of tracking criminal uses of telephones in the country through identity and security management and to ensure the establishment of a credible database of SIM card subscribers as an enabler to the overall citizen identification system.  Licensing of VAS aggregator licences (10 of them) The dynamism of the industry led to the restructuring of telecoms value- added service (VAS) market for greater growth. Under Danbatta’s the watch, the commission has also witnessed a recalibration and repositioning of the sector’s value–added service (VAS) segment, a move that has helped to sanitise the industry. The sub-sector’s current value is estimated at $200 million with potential to grow to over $500 million in the next few years.  In line with the restructure, the NCC, in 2019, has awarded the value added services aggregator licences to 10 companies to provide VAS services.