The attorney-general of the federation (AGF) and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), has taken over the prosecution of detained activist and convener of RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, for alleged treasonable felony. The charge alongside others, were filed against him by the Department of State Services (DSS) at the Federal High Court, Abuja. Malami said that his action was a demonstration of the federal government’s commitment to the rule of law and respect for the fundamental rights of Nigerians.
Sowore and Olawale Bakare are standing trial for alleged treasonable felony, money laundering and other offences. They pleaded not guilty to the charges and were granted bail in the sum of N100 million and N30 million each.
However, the re-arrest of Sowore last Friday at the Federal High Court, Abuja, has attracted strong condemnation from within and outside the country against the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. While the government on Wednesday disclosed that it has set up machinery to investigate the matter, Malami in statement issued in Abuja, yesterday by his special assistant on media and public relations, Dr Umar Gwandu, said that he had taken over the case to ensure speedy dispensation of justice. According to Gwandu, “the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami, said that the federal government is committed to respecting the sanctity of the rule of law, protecting the virtues of human rights and ensuring speedy dispensation of justice. “As part of deliberate efforts to probe emerging issues related to the recent imbroglio related to Omoyele Sowore’s case and for the speedy dispensation of justice, the attorney-general and minister of justice has requested that the case file in respect of the charge pending before the Federal High Court, Abuja, be forwarded to his office,” he said. The request for the transfer of the case from the DSS to the AGF, Gwandu said was contained in a letter dated 11th December, 2019, and addressed to the director-general of the DSS, National Headquarters, Abuja. The solicitor-general of the federation and permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, Dayo Apata (SAN) who signed the letter refereed to another one from the DSS office on 9th September, 2019. According to the letter, “the honourable attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice upon a further review of the case has directed the immediate takeover of the prosecution of all charges in respect of Omoyole Sowore by the Federal Ministry of Justice in line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) and 174 (1) (a-c) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” According to the statement, the letter requested the DSS director to “promptly forward all the case files” in respect of Sowore to the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. In a reaction to the minister’s action, Mr Ahmed Raji (SAN), commended him for the bold step. Raji told LEADERSHIP Weekend that Sowore’s trial was already creating some challenges for the federal government. He said that although the DSS had a role to play in security matters, its legal team may not be vast in the management of court theatrics. “It is a welcome development, so far, the way and manner it has gone is creating some challenges for the government, especially on what the DSS did and what they did not do. And I think the AGF has acted in the proper manner by taking over the matter. In any event, all prosecutions are under his directive, so what he has done is a welcomed development and we should commend him for doing that, at least to douse the tension. “No doubt, the DSS has a role to perform in security and what have you, but when it comes to the management of court theatrics, they may not be able to do it the way and manner it is expected. Now that the chief law officer of the country has taken over the matter, I think we should commend Malami,” Raji said. He further explained that the AGF would change the legal team and assign a counsel from his chamber or instruct any lawyer of his choice to take over the prosecution. “All it means is that holistically, the AGF will now have to look at it; study it and see necessary things to be done, and since the prosecution is no longer directly under the supervision of the DSS, it will not be at the front stage again. “The AGF will take counsel from his chambers or the lawyers he will instruct will now be in charge. Although, whoever investigates any matter and charges anybody to court did so under the supervision of the AGF, and he reserves the power to take over any prosecution that is commenced in the name of the government of Nigeria he can take it over. With or without the crisis, he can take it over, with this crisis, he has done very well to have intervened, so we have to commend him,” he stated. Another lawyer, Bamidele Onipde, said that the AGF is empowered to take over the prosecution of a case from any prosecuting agencies. ‘’It is a welcome development and I commend the federal government for the decision. I think it’s time the government stop rights abuses and take the rights of its citizens seriously. You can’t infringe on the rights of your citizens and expect them to keep quiet. Any society which is not governed by the rule of law is a jungle. Even, foreign investors will have confidence in us, if the government adheres to the rule of law,’’ he said. A United States (US)-based lawyer and son of a retired Supreme Court Justice, Mr. Emmanuel Ogebe, described the development as bizarre.
According to him, the chief law officer of the nation is the attorney-general of the federation. He said: ‘’The EFCC and other such agencies can do so only under powers he delegates to them. Therefore, the question arises, who authorised the DSS to prosecute Sowore and Bakare; that it is only now AGF is seeking to take over? ‘’Intelligence agencies like DSS are not supposed to be seen or heard. You do your investigation and hand over to the prosecutors who then decide, if and how to carry on. ‘’The FBI investigated the US presidential candidate but didn’t prosecute him. When Donald Trump came to power, he complained and the FBI was itself investigated by the inspector-general. What the IG found was that the FBI investigation was in good faith and not politically-motivated but that errors were made by the FBI operatives,’’ he said. Also yesterday, a former first vice-president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Onyekachi Ubani, said that Malami’s action portends a good omen in the administration of criminal justice in the country. Ubani said that the AGF being the chief law officer of the country constitutionally has the responsibility of initiating, taking over, including discontinuing the prosecution of anyone charged with committing any federal offence in the land. He said: “Before now, I had the belief and conviction that the office of the AGF was in charge of Sowore’s matter because the case was filed by the office and I was sure they might have chosen the private lawyer who is the lead counsel for the prosecution. “I am taken aback by the announcement from them of taking over from the DSS based on what I have just explained. “One advantage of having the AGF take over the said case if they were not in charge before now is that investigators of a matter do not make good prosecution.
“There is this desperation for investigator/prosecutor to ensure that they secure conviction by all means through fair or foul means. “The DSS has exhibited unparalleled excesses towards the prosecution of Sowore and his colleague hence the blunders committed so far. “The office of AGF in the present circumstance will examine critically the charge against Sowore and his colleague to see whether it is worth wasting the scare resources of the government in pressing for a continuation. If it finds out that the charge is worthless, the proper and sane thing to do is to discontinue the case immediately,” he said. In his reaction, Mr Norrison Ibinabo Quakers (SAN) said as the chief law officer of the country, Malami’s action is commendable but a bit late.
Quakers said: “What the attorney-general has just done is backed by law, he is constitutionally empowered to take over any case filed on behalf of the federal government at any stage. “I don’t want to read any political undertone to this development until I see what the AG do next. But if he had acted earlier, he would have saved both the executive and the judiciary from serious ridicule. DSS Looking For Evidence To Nail Sowore – Falana Meanwhile, Mr. Femi Falana, human rights lawyer, has said that Malami sacked the prosecution team after the invasion of the court.
Sowore, who was briefly released by the Department of State Services (DSS) on Thursday, was rearrested less than 24 hours later. On Wednesday, Malami sent a letter to Yusuf Bichi, the director-general of the DSS directing the security agency to promptly forward the case file to his office.
But Falana said that it was the AGF that initially filed a case against Sowore before it was transferred to Hassan Liman, the prosecuting counsel. Falana also accused the DSS of “currently fishing for evidence to nail Sowore,” adding that despite the directive of the AGF to take over the case, his client was still subjected to a four-hour interrogation on Thursday. “It is not a takeover because it was the AGF that filed the Sowore’s case and farmed it out to Dr. Hassan Liman SAN,” he said. “But in view of the violent invasion of the court by armed operatives of the DSS, the AGF has decided to sack the prosecution team and have the case prosecuted by the DPP. “Having been advised that Sowore cannot be convicted on the basis of the proof of evidence filed in court, the DSS has refused to make the statements of the prosecution witnesses available to the defendants as ordered by the trial court. “Hence, hearing in the case has been adjourned till February 20, 2020 at the instance of the prosecution. “Convinced that the pending case would collapse like a pack of cards, the SSS (also called DSS) is currently fishing for evidence to nail Sowore. In spite of the directive of the AGF to take over the case the SSS subjected Sowore to a f-hour interrogation yesterday (12/12/19). “The entire interrogation pertained to Sowore’s alleged links with the proscribed Boko Haram sect, IPOB, and IMN which he vehemently denied. At Sowore’s instance a member of the legal defence team, Mr. Abubakar Marshal witnessed the marathon interrogation. “In view of the foregoing, we urge the AGF to file a nolle prosequi motion without any further delay to end the macabre dance which has exposed the country to avoidable embarrassment,” Falana said. Calls For Removal Of DSS DG, Bichi, Diversionary, Unpatriotic – PSC But the Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has described as unpatriotic and diversionary the calls for the sack of Bichi over the re-arrest of Sowore. The committee’s reaction followed an editorial published on Friday by an online paper, Premium Times, in which it claimed Bichi had become a major threat to the norms and values of a democratic system and, therefore, the time has come for him to step down as the head of the secret police. In a statement issued by its director of communication and strategic planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the PSC said that it was “appalled by the editorial by Premium Times” calling for the removal of the DSS boss over the operations of his operatives. He maintained that that the DSS boss is a law-abiding citizen, and under him, the agency has maintained the highest regard for the laws of the land and would not do anything to undermine law and order. Ibrahim urged Nigerians to ignore the position of the online paper, describing it as the ranting of anti-democratic elements bent on destabilising the Buhari administration.