President Muhammadu Buhari will today herald a new phase in Nigeria’s budgeting system as he signs the 2020 Appropriation Bill into law before the current year, 2019, runs out. The president will sign the bill at the presidential villa, Abuja. The ceremony, which holds at 3pm, will be witnessed by the Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and the chairmen of the appropriations committees of both the Senate and Lower House. The signing of the budget is among the key activities lined up for the president today. Before now, the budget is usually passed late by the National Assembly and also presidential assent. Most times, the budget is passed between May and June, six months into the new year. The development has affected  and led to poor budget implementation by various administrations. With the signing of the budget today, Nigeria will revert to the January to December budget cycle. The Senate of the 9th National Assembly, which made the country’s return to the January-December a cardinal programme, had passed the 2020 budget of N10.594 trillion two months after President Buhari  submitted the document to the legislature. The passage of the budget followed the consideration and adoption of the report of the Senate Committee on Appropriation by its chairman, Senator Barau Jibrin. While presenting the report at plenary on Thursday, December 5, 2019, Jibrin said that the committee adopted the 2020-2022 Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) as approved by the National Assembly. The breakdown of the budget puts aggregate expenditure at N10.594 trillion, statutory transfers at N560 billion, debt service at N2.725 trillion, recurrent expenditure at N4.842 trillion, capital expenditure at N2.465 trillion, fiscal deficit at N2.28 trillion, and deficit/GDP at 1.52 per cent. The lawmakers adopted a daily crude production rate of 2.18 million barrels as proposed by the executive but raised the oil benchmark to $57 as against the executive $55 submitted by Buhari.  Senate Set To Okay $29.9bn Loan Request Meanwhile, Lawan (Senate President) has said that the Senate would approve the $29.96 billion loan request last November by President Buhari. Lawan said that the 8th Senate could not approve the earlier loan request because of lack of detailed information. At a media briefing held at Rockview Hotel Abuja, yesterday, with editors, bureau chiefs and the members of the Senate Press Corps on the achievements of the Senate in the past six months, Lawan said that the Senate had received the details of the borrowing plan from the executive. He said: “Yes, if we don’t have money but have other projects that need money, nothing will stop its passage,” Lawan said of the $29.96 billion awaiting the lawmakers’ approval. The Senate president said that upon approval of the loan is approved, the National Assembly would ensure that the projects listed under it, are executed. Lawan said that they would not pass the controversial Hate Speech Bill if Nigerians were opposed to it, stressing that their loyalty lies on the people. The Senate president, who used the occasion to speak on other national issues, said that they’ve gotten approval for N37 billion to renovate the National Assembly complex 20 years after it was built. Lawan who said implementation of the previous budget was not at the level they will like to see, said Nigeria has been suffering from uncollected revenue which they are working on to stop now. “Bad budget cycle also affected the budget implementation apart from the fact that revenues were not enough. So, we need to address the issue of revenue generation,” Lawan said. On the disputed constituency projects, the Senate president said: “The constituency projects have remained controversial but essential. The projects are presented by various lawmakers and implemented by the executive. “The highest implementation of constituency projects was 70 per cent in the past. With more revenues, and with the budget of 2020 starting in January, constituency projects and the national projects will receive a boost,” Lawan said. He said that the National Assembly would start constitutional amendment in January, remarking that like every other Nigerian, the lawmakers were unhappy with the electoral process in Nigeria. Reviisting the controversial Hate Speech Bill, Lawan said that it had generated a lot of interest, adding that the lawmakers would not pass it without the consent of Nigerians. Lawan said: “The Hate Speech Bill to me has a leg in a democratic process. It won’t be passed without public hearing. But I want to assure you that the opinions of Nigerians will determine its passage.” Commenting on the bills they’ve passed in the last six months, Lawan said that Nigeria would earn about $2 billion on oil revenue in next year “because of the passage of the oil production sharing formula. Nigeria will earn about $2 billion in the year 2020” to reduce the deficit in the budget. He said that the legislators would beam their searchlight on revenue generation agencies to fund important projects, adding that he never said Nigeria does not need to borrow to fund projects. Lawan who also said he believed in the federal character principle warned that any society that fails to observe it will be doomed. “If you have an issue with the federal character principle, write to the public petition committee, we will treat it,” Lawan said, adding that he had been upholding the principle. On the springing up of regional development commission bills, Lawan said that the North East Development Commission provides succour for the people of the area, adding that others would be considered by the lawmakers. Lawan who disclosed that the severance package of aides of former lawmakers would be paid this week, said that they had observed that the National Assembly complex needs renovation. He said: “We observed the need to renovate the National Assembly after exhaustive discussion with the management and President Muhammadu Buhari because 20 years after the complex was built, we’ve not had any major renovation and President Buhari said he will renovate the complex. We met with FCDA for phase one renovation and N37 billion was put in the FCT budget for it.” The Senate president charged Nigerians to judge them by their actions as he noted that the National Assembly had taken so many decisions in the best interest of the country. We can’t do what is inimical to the Nigerians. We want to make lives better for the citizens. We have remained united in the Senate for the betterment of Nigeria. So far, we’ve not done anything that is not in the interest of Nigerians. When we do what is rubber stamp, tell us that this is rubber stamp. Encourage us because it helps,” Lawan said. The Senate deputy minority leader, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe said that they are united in the Senate in Nigeria’s interest. “We are always talking about Nigeria and how we can make country better. The Senate is one and we’ve worked to ensure the betterment of Nigeria. We may disagree during debates but it contributes to harmonious relationship. What we all want is that at the end, let Nigeria be better,” Abaribe said. The sponsor of the hate speech bill that stipulates death penalty for offenders, Senator Sabi Abdullahi said that it was in the interest of the country’s democracy that he sponsored it. Sabi said that the bill has helped to raise the consciousness of the people, adding that whatever they do at the National Assembly would not be against the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.