The year 2019 has been a very eventful year for businesses.  However, manufacturing and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) had to contend with the usual constraints of the business environment in 2019.  OLUSHOLA BELLO writes. The year 2019 will go down in the annals of history as one of the busiest for the Nigerian businesses. The continued recovery of the Nigerian economy, which generated a real growth of 1.81 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y) by the end of third quarter (Q3), improvement in macroeconomic stability, border closer and signing of African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) acted as catalysts to the many activities that characterised the Nigerian capital market in 2019. Despite the operating business challenging environment, the economy was able to maintain a positive growth trajectory driven by the recovery of oil price for most part of the year which gave a boost to the macroeconomic fundamentals. Nigeria remains a robust economy with a large market, abundant natural resources and a productive population. Business, Economic Environment In 2019 Data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reveals that economic growth slowed to 1.94 per cent in second quarter of 2019 from 2.1 per cent in the first quarter, bringing half-year growth for 2019 to 2.02 per cent. Nigeria’s economic growth has not grown fast enough to create opportunities for its populace growing at 2.6 per cent, and this calls for concern given its attendant impact on poverty and unemployment. Headline inflation averaged 11.25 per cent between January and September 2019. The naira has been relatively stable against the US dollar across different market windows. This was largely driven by sustained intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in the currency market. Ease Of Doing Business Nigeria moved 15-places up the ladder in the 2020 World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business report, to 131st from 146th position last year. The ranking is Nigeria’s best performance since 2011. The analysis of the report showed Nigeria climbed four spots higher to the 17th position in the Sub-Saharan Africa and jumped two spots higher to claim the fifth spot in West Africa. Stakeholders commended the government on the attainment of this feat which also reflects the efforts of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC). With this report, Nigeria has moved 39 places in five years, from 170th position in 2015 up to 131st position. Signing Of AfCFTA After series of consultation with stakeholders, the President Muhammadu Buhari signed the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement in Niger Republic on July 7, 2019. The deal is expected to improve intra-African trade, enhance economic growth and sustainable development. The AfCFTA treaty, one of the flagship projects of the AU Agenda 2063, is aimed at creating a single continental market for goods and services, with free movement of business people and investment. Poised to be the world’s largest free trade zone, the 55-member AU initiated the move in March 2018, with 44 countries signing onto the deal earlier. Nigeria, the largest African economy, was not among them. Data from the World Bank shows that as at 2015, African countries have among the highest non-tariff trade costs in the world estimated at over 250 per cent. The AfCFTA plans to ease non-tariff barriers to trade on the continent, such as the reduction of red tape (which improves the time to export and import), removal of quotas & licenses, improving customs services (clearance procedures) and easing of rules of origin, among others. The agreement is expected to lead to cheaper consumer and industrial goods which would drive improved well-being and promote the industrial sector. There is also the case for economies of scale as firms try to sell to the bigger African market, leading to increased efficiency. Stakeholders expected countries to support industrialization to make the best use of the bigger African market as exports in much of Africa is currently of low value due to weak processing. To compete, efforts to bolster competitiveness through structural reforms, human capital and infrastructure investment are expected to intensify. According to the Manufactures Association of Nigeria (MAN), Nigeria has the potential to dominate trade in AfCFTA, if every component of the framework agreed on is properly negotiated and the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector is enhanced. Border Closure The federal government had earlier in August announced a partial border closure as part of an effort to curb smuggling of rice and other goods, which government believed can be produced locally. Border closure affects both legal and illegal trade flows, leaving air and seaports as the only available option trade in goods while halting trade flows with landlocked neighbors such as Niger Republic. Experts said that the border closure was a short-term solution to a long-term problem. Amid persistent complaints from many affected Nigerians, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and some members of the public  endorsed the federal government’s decision to close the borders, describing it as the most successful and effective measure so far adopted, in terms of curtailing the influx of smuggled rice and other goods to the country. The comptroller-general of the NCS, Col Hameed Ali, said the agency’s revenue had risen to over N5 billion daily, since the closure, saying that more than 200 illegal immigrants were apprehended across the border and thousands of bags of rice and other contraband confiscated. The impact of the closure on fuel smuggling was not left out, the Group managing director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, said that the closure of Nigeria’s borders towards the end of August this year, as well as other interventions, had helped in reducing the smuggling of petrol. Stakeholders’ Views The director-general of LCCI, Muda Yusuf said that economic growth trend, measured by the performance of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), has been generally positive in the year. He however, said that it remains a major worry that the economy is still structurally defective as it is too dependent on the oil and gas sector, creating serious vulnerability risks. He stated that the quality of the business environment remains a source of concern to investors, especially in the real sector, saying that weak infrastructure, policy environment and institutions had adverse effects on efficiency, productivity and competitiveness of many enterprises in the economy.  These conditions pose a major risk to job creation in and economic inclusion across sectors. Also, a review of manufacturers CEOs Confidence Index (MCCI) by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in third quarter of the year showed that there was marginal improvement in the economy over the preceding quarter, it is far below projections and expectations of MAN and majority of the member-companies operating in the sector. MAN urged the government to urgently address the challenges identified and give priority attentions to the general recommendations in this report. Meanwhile, the manufacturing sector has been identified as the catalyst of industrialization and engine of growth of any economy. The sector in Nigeria faces myriads of challenges, particularly poor economic infrastructure and regulatory challenges. These issues account for the almost stationary performance state of the sector in recent times and underscore the need to deliberate chat a course of action to change the narratives of the sector.