The chairman of Langtang North local government council of Plateau state, Dr. Joshua Ubandoma has identified lack of autonomy in local government administration as one of the challenges facing council areas in the country. According to him, the lack of autonomy in the third tier of government is a great impediment to the development of the grassroot in the country. Ubandoma who spoke to newsmen shortly after a thanksgiving service at COCIN Church, Kantang in Langtang north council area said the reason for the thanksgiving service was to appreciate God for what he did for him. According to him, he challenged the result declared by PLASIEC for the council elections before the election petition tribunal which he claimed struck out his petition. Not satisfied, he went further to the LGC election appeal tribunal where he was declared winner of the October 10th election stressing that after one year of legal battle he was finally sworn in as duly elected Chairman of Langtang north LGC. “This development calls for Thanksgiving to appreciate God for what he has done for me throughout the period I was struggling to reclaim the mandate given to me by the good people of Langtang north LGC .” The chairman said he hit the ground running by remodelling the council secreteriat with a view to creating conducive working environment for the staff of the council. He lamented that Langtang North LGC which is one of the oldest council in the state has no water for use by staff  in the secreteriat, adding that in a bid to discourage open defecation he has constructed  two motorized borehole for the use of secreteriat staff . The chairman  appealed to Tarok sons and daughters world over to ensure that they restore the unity of oneness and eschew violence with a  view to preaching the gospel of peaceful coexistence amongst themselves . According to him, time has come for all the Tarok speaking clan to come together for the progress of the land. “I want to see a united Tarok nation devoid of any rancour where all the clans will agree to work for the interest of one another,” he added.