The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Monday said the war against corruption is winnable, saying the commission it has recovered huge sums of money on behalf of the federal government both in local and foreign currencies. Addressing newsmen to commemorate the International Anti-corruption Day, Zonal Head, Ibadan zonal office, Mr. Friday Ebelo called on Nigerians to stand to be counted in the fight against corruption. According to him, corruption poses an existential threat to “our survival as individuals and as a nation. “We must personalise the fight against the monster if we truly desire a corruption-free Nigeria. We can’t sit on the fence and expect success in this campaign. “We must all get involved. It is a winnable war if only we show doggedness and commitment. The money recovered he said included a total of N211,134,927.26, $136,289, and €2000.’’ He added that in the last one year, particularly from January 2019 till date, the zone received 691 petitions, saying 213 of the petitions were returned unapproved as issues raised therein did not fall under the purview of our mandate. According to him, in the course of investigations, the zone arrested 878 persons, out of the 268 prosecuted, 171 have been convicted. “Our investigations also led to temporary fixing of 1044 bank accounts, while 56 automobiles and 14 houses were impounded. We equally have several laptops android phones and many other electronic devices confiscated in compliance with court orders. “For the Ibadan zone, the last one year witnessed a beehive of activities with unprecedented successes as the zone contributes its modest quota to the global fight against corruption”, he said. While noting the event was special, Ebelo said remains the most potent threat to human existence. “It is at the root of every tragedy that ever befell mankind. It has also been identified as the ultimate potential impediment to the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals proposed for full actualisation by the year 2030. “It is the realisation of these threats and the need to nip them in the bud that countries of the world came together under the auspices of the United Nations to pass the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) in December 2003. “As of today, 186 member-states are parties to the treaty.  The document currently has 140 signatories and 30 ratification. Those are in addition to the full involvement of notable Non-Member states of the global body”, he added. 