Massive conspiracy against the acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu has thickened as the anti-Magu forces and their arrowheads have begun clandestine moves to ease out the EFCC boss. The sponsors and leaders of the plots are  apprehensive of the continued stay of Magu, despite the fact that his four years tenure ended on November 9, 2019. A security source, who confirmed the plans, said with the festive season around the corner and couple of official working days before Christmas break, those behind the plot are now desperate to achieve their objectives. Leadership also gathered that the forces against the anti-graft czar have recruited some civil society organisations (CSOs) and rabble rousers for the project, as they are now holding meeting in choice hotels in Abuja and Lagos to perfect the game plans. The source noted that one of the sponsors of the project is a high profile defendant in money laundering and corruption matter in the oil and gas sector. The well-heeled player in the oil sector who has close relationship with a former oil minister is alleged to have mobilized huge funds to fund the campaign against Magu. Some of the plans ahead include addressing press conference where certain allegations against EFCC under Magu will be unfolded; Hold sponsored rallies against the commission in Abuja and Lagos; attack the integrity of the EFCC acting chairman and to driving a wedge between him and his principals in government. Others are sponsored petitions before the House of Representatives with certain allegations against the EFCC, claiming that Magu has served the statutory four years as EFCC boss, as stipulated in the EFCC Act. And that the president ought to have removed him on the grounds that he has completed his tenure. However, another source familiar with the development, hinted that concerted efforts had been put in place to tackle the petition while the matter is being addressed. “Unfortunately Magu has been on active capacity as the Saraki-led Senate refused to confirm him on two occasions,” the sources noted. Also, the anti-Magu forces are relying on Sections 2 (3) and 3 (1) of the EFCC (Establishment) Act, 2004 to buttress their argument. Section 2 (3) states that, “The Chairman and members of the Commission other than ex-officio members shall be appointed by the President and appointment shall be subject to the confirmation of the Senate.” Section 3 (1) states that, “The Chairman and members of the Commission other than ex-officio members shall hold office for a period of four years and may be re-appointed for a further term of four years and no more.” The source further noted that though different names are being bandied about as replacement for Magu in the corridors of power, President Buhari has refused to disclose his intention over the status of Magu. Besides, the President is keeping his decision on Magu to his chest as none of those close to him in Aso Rock can actually speak authoritatively on the matter.