Against the backdrop of public outcry against the alleged disregard for the rule of law and suppression of the opposition by the current administration, Senator Dino Melaye has called for tolerance of dissenting political views and total obedience to the rule of law in the country. Melaye made the calls in his 2019 Christmas message to Nigerians via a statement he personally signed and sent out to journalists on Tuesday. The popular Kogi politician in the statement titled “Yuletide: Senator Dino Melaye Felicitates With Nigerians, Calls For Tolerance Of All Shades Of Opinion,” rejoiced with all Nigerians and in particular the Christian faithful on the occasion of this year’s Christmas, which he described as “special festival to commemorate the birth of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, who is a special gift to mankind from God.” He, however, bemoaned the state of the nation, saying the level of intolerance for dissenting voices, brazen disregard for the rule of law and the latest official disdain for citizens’ right to peaceful protest, are a dent on the nation’s democracy. “The import of this day – every December 25 – cannot be  lost on us. It’s for appreciating God’s mercy over us despite our sinful ways, His love, forgiveness, salvation, peace and charity, among other inexplicable benefits of Jesus’ birth. Therefore, we must live our lives to reflect these benefits at all times. “Sadly, the political climate in our dear country is currently hostile occasioned by high-level intolerance of dissenting political views and right to a peaceful protest, among other anti-democratic tendencies. It is needless to say that our democratic credentials as a nation are incomplete if the state resort to high-handedness, suppression of opposing views and direct attack on citizens. “For the avoidance of doubt, it remains my unshakable belief that we will be better off as a nation if we tolerate all shades of opinion and operate within the confines of the rule of law in dealing with all issues,” Melaye added. He further admonished fellow Nigerians to remain united as one people and one nation even as he urged them to promote and cherish peace in all parts of the country with prayers for “ourselves, leaders and government in the quest to achieve a united and peaceful Nigeria.” 