Amidst complaints from the opposition APC, Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Fintiri on Monday 9th December, inaugurated the newly elected chairmen of 21 local governments in the state, elected on the platform of the PDP, ADEBIYI ADEDAPO, writes. Amidst complains from the opposition APC, Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Fintiri on Monday December 9, inaugurated the newly elected chairmen of 21 local governments in the state, elected on the platform of the PDP, ADEBIYI ADEDAPO writes. The Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC) on Sunday, 8th December  announced results of council election held on Saturday 7th.  The results indicated that candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won the election in all the 21 local government areas of the state. The results declared by the executive chairman of ADSIEC, Isa Shetimma, showed that the PDP performed overwhelmingly in all the LGAs, leaving opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) trailing weakly. Although, apathy, expressed in low voter turn-out greeted the election, it was conducted in a peaceful atmosphere without rancor. Voting started behind schedule in Yola and its environs, with low turn out of voters in  polling units visited. The exercise started at 9:00 am, as electoral officials from ADSIEC were seen conducting accreditation and voting simultaneously. At Yelwa unit 11 Yola town, officials  and voting materials arrived at polling units at 8:30am, while voters were on queue ready to exercise their franchise. Similarly at unit 10, Mbamoi ward polling centre, in front of Lamido palace, in Yola-South LGA accreditation and election were in progress, when Leadership visited the unit. However, traders in Yola defied the stay at home order, issued by a new commissioner of police, Philip Maku. Maku was deployed to over-see the elections in the state. The new commissioner had assured the public of adequate security for the exercise. “I am deployed to Adamawa to over-see the forth coming local government election scheduled for tomorrow, December 7. “I want to assure members of the public that deployment of policemen and other security operatives from sister agencies is done to cover all polling units across the state to ensure the electorate cast their votes without being harassed or intimidated. “Let me equally warn that no form of election rigging, thuggery or violence would be allowed to disrupt the election process. “There is going to be Stop and Search patrols and monitoring of election process in the entire state to apprehend any one that is out to cause breakdown of law and order,” Maku said. He also announced the restriction of movement from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Saturday. “I want to thank and appreciate members of the general public and equally call on them to be law abiding and report any suspicious movements around them to the police,” the police commissioner added. But in defiance to the order, shops owners were seen operating their normal business activities in major streets visited, but human and vehicular movements strictly complied in some areas.  Security operative were spotted on major roads conducting stop-and-search on motorist to ensure safety of the people during the exercise. Despite the peaceful atmosphere, there were complaints about the conduct of the election from the opposition circle. Among the critics was former secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), David Babachir Lawal, who released a statement Sunday afternoon alleging that the election was a fraud and an insult to Adamawa people. The former SGF accused Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of failing to deliver on his promise to ensure free and fair elections. He alleged that election did not take place in some LGAs, including Hong where he was during the election, and declared that the result of the election is not acceptable. Also, the senator representing Adamawa Central District, Aishatu Ahmed Binani, in her reaction, decried low turnout. The APC senator who spoke after casting her ballot in Yola North LGA, said: “So far so good, except that the turnout is low compared to our experience during the presidential, National Assembly and governorship elections. The turnout was far better.” She, however, said the council poll was peaceful and it should be commended. Meanwhile, ahead of the election, the senator from Adamawa North,  Ishaku Abbo, while reacting to the election, warned the state governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri not to constitute himself as a security threat to the people of the state who gave him the mandate to govern. Ishaku also warned the governor not to be the “chief security threat” but rather avail himself to be “the chief security officer of the state.” Abbo, in a letter addressed to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) on Thursday, 5th of December, said a call to service is a noble call for nation-building. “This has become necessary in view of the fact that elections have become potential causes of insecurity in Nigeria and indeed Africa.” Adamawa State, he said, “has had her unfair share of insecurity and instability in the last few years which were caused by the Book Haram insurgency, communal clashes, farmers-herders clashes, among other causes.” According to Ishaku, “the conduct and utterances of the governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri in the build-up to this election where he has said that anyone who got the ticket of his party in the various local governments is already a winner, this is a serious concern to all peace-loving people of Adamawa State. “He has also said that election results will be declared by 12:00 noon on the day of the election in Yola the state capital instead of a declaration of results at each of the twenty-one local government area headquarters.” Ishaku further alleged that the governor planned to travel out of the state leaving behind instruction to the chairman, Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC) to declare results in Yola in favour of his political party, even before results are collated. Nevertheless, the chairman, Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC), Mallam Isa Shettima,  in his reaction to the complains, expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the polls. He said he was satisfied with the exercise and that except for the low turn-out of voters, everything was free and fair. According to him, the conduct of the election was peaceful throughout the state. According to chairman, 14 political parties participated in the election. The parties include Accord, Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Congress (ADC), All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) and Young Progressive Party (YPP). Others are Action Alliance (AA), Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), KOWA Party and All Progressives Congress (APC). Also included are Alliance of Social Democrats (ASD), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Movement for Restoration and Defence for Democracy (MRDD) and Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN). Expectedly, the state chapter of the APC rejected the results, describing the election as a complete sham. The party’s legal adviser, Mr Shagnah Pwamaddi, said that the party would do everything within the law to seek redress. “The recently conducted election is a complete sham, undemocratic and below standard of what we call election. “This is a selection that was perpetrated under intimidation and inducement. We are not going to accept it,” he added. But the governor, while swearing-in the new local government chairmen, noted that the result reflected the true feeling of Adamawa people, saying they were happy with the ‘fresh air agenda’ of the PDP government in the state. While urging the new chairmen to carry everyone along, he cautioned them against unnecessary traveling outside their areas of jurisdiction. “Government will not tolerate a situation where chairmen travel at will abandoning their areas,” Fintiri said.