In this report, ADENIYI ADUNOLA establishes the correlation between business and literature in respect of luck as it played out in the ancient city of Benin, Edo State when one of Nigeria’s foremost telecommunications companies, Globacom, presented prizes won by some subscribers in the company’s customer empowerment promotion tagged, ‘My Own Don Beta’ : Scholars and literary critics of Elizabethan literature have a common ground in affirming that the era was characterised by the principle of dues ex machina  in which some extraterrestrial forces intervened in human affairs to avert disasters or save a seemingly hopeless situation. The literary device of dues ex machina, to a large extent, is deliberately contrived to suit the plots of most tragic plays and novels of that epoch and even in contemporary literature. However, in African oral literature, dues ex machina, is not a contrived device to make the celestial to intervene in terrestrial or human affairs; it is a realism and the debate on this has over the years become thematic and a preoccupation in the study of Africa Literature; oral or written. If literary critics have problems agreeing on the reality or otherwise of that literary principle or device, the Bini people, from time immemorial, settled the controversy in the affirmative by their two philosophies of  Idoduwa  and Izoduwa. For the Bini, there are two ways by which a man comes into fortune. The first is Idoduwa,  which can be transliterated to mean “I stumbled into prosperity”, while the second way is Izoduwa,  which means “I have chosen the part of prosperity”. For these highly cultured people, a man becomes prosperous by sheer luck, or through a deliberate effort guided by the gods and the ancestors. In modern term, it is sheer luck. These two philosophies; Idoduwa  and Izoduwa  clearly played out last Monday in the ancient city of Benin, when one of Nigeria’s foremost telecommunications companies, Globacom, presented prizes won by some subscribers in the company’s customer empowerment promotion tagged My Own Don Beta, to them. Items given out to the winners included grinding machines, generators industrial sewing machines a tricycles, otherwise known as Keke. The testimonials of the winners, who are majorly Bini people, confirmed that nothing happens by chance. The unseen forces, most often than not, smile down on mortals and make things easy for them. Let us start with the testimony of Freedom Osa Ogbahon, a civil servant with Primary Health Care, Oredo Local Government Area and also a pastor. Ogbahon won a brand-new generator in the promo. According to him, he would be moving into his own private house before the Yuletide. However, he had not been able to provide electricity for the new house. But, electricity or no electricity, he must celebrate the Charismas and the new year festivities in the new house. Then, suddenly, he received a call from Globacom that he had won a brand-new generator! What do you call that? Idoduwa!. Now, he speaks: “I am very happy and excited. I will use the generator in my new house. I am packing in this week and I did not make provision for electricity. This is God’s sent and many thanks to Glo”. Ogbahon has a twin brother in Izekor Julius, who also won a generator. Izekor, according to him, operates an oil mill by the Benin by-pass. He relies mostly on the epileptic power supply by the Benin Electricity Distribution Company, BEDC, to run his oil mill. But with the brand-new generator from the Glo My Own Don Beta promo, BDC can no longer hold him to ransom with its never-constant electricity supply. He says: “I am very happy because this is an alternative power source to the milling house”. Iguma Sunday, a businessman who is into property, has cause to say Osarunwense (thank you God). Why? He won a grinding machine and his wife had been asking that he should buy another grinding machine to add to the one she has been using to grind on commercial scale. Iguma was full of praises to Globacom for the gift, saying, “I feel so good. I will give it to my wife to add to the one she has. She has even asked me to buy another one so this is my luck” For Oziegbe Benjamin, a 200 level student of Computer Science, Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, winning an industrial sewing machine is pure Idoduwa, not only for him, but also for his younger sister, who coincidentally, is a fashion designer. Oziegbe, who doubted the promo initially and reluctantly recharged his phone with “just N200 to give it a trial”, promised to give the sewing machine to his younger sister. “This is a huge platform and thanks to Glo. I will give the machine my younger sisters who is a fashion designer”, he vowed. If the above instances depict the philosophy of Idoduwa, “I stumbled into prosperity”, the following testimony by Obayuwana Eguavoen, who won a brand new Keke, depicts the second philosophy, Izoduwa, “I have chosen the road to prosperity”. Obayuwana though is the one who won the keke, however, he is not the one who has chosen the road to prosperity, but his newly born baby. He narrates his story thus: “I am a technician, electrical work. I feel good and very happy. My wife just gave birth so I am going to register the Keke in the name of my baby and hand over to my wife for business. A big thanks go to Glo. They surprise me and the Lord will surprise them too”. With prudent management of the keke business by Obayuwana, Baby Obayuwana is on the way to becoming a prosperous transporter! Same applies to Henry Ogbeifun, who also won a brand new keke and whose wife is heavily pregnant. Receiving his keke in his Akugbe Community, Siloko Road Benin City on Friday, Ogbeifun, who was flanked by his wife, Eunice, said that “the keke will be used for commercial purpose and the proceeds will saved and invested for our baby”. Of all the Keke winners in Benin City, Amos Friday, a photographer from Kano, perfectly demonstrated the way a man can choose the part of prosperity for himself. Hear him: “I am very excited and happy. I will be using the Keke for part time transport after closure of work by 6.00pm I can still do some two hours and make extra money. With Glo, my own don better. I will take it to Kano. I have already arranged for that”.  True to his claim, immediately he completed the documentation for the release of the keke, Friday moved the tricycle to Aduwawa end of the city where he loaded the keke to a Kano-bound lorry. Two other winners in the promo, Akhimien Osasuyi Blessing, a 400 level Medical Laboratory student of University of Benin and Zion Gabriel, Banking and Finance student graduate from Auchi Polytechnic, who both won generators, enthused that they would give the items to their parents to attract blessings and prayers from them. While Akhimien said, “I feel so excited that I have won something from Glo for the 1st time. I will give the Generator to my mother to use in the house. Now we can drink cold water and drinks, even if there is no light”, Zion on his part said, “I will use this generator because I could not afford to buy it. I will give it to my parents to use at home. This is my thank you gift to them”. Speaking at the event, Mr. Anslem Ejiogu, Zonal Coordinator, Benin Office, National Lottery Regulatory Commission commended Globacom for making the process transparent. “This is a legitimate activity. Globacom is giving back to the society that has been supporting the company. We are here to ensure that everything is done accordingly. All the winners will go home with their prizes. I congratulate Globacom on the promo which they know how to do best”, he added. Also speaking at the community prize presentation held at Akugbe Community, Siloko Road, Benin City, the Odionwere of Akugbe Community, Chief Igbineweka Iyangbe, thanked Globacom for coming to the community “to present a brand new keke to Henry Ogbeifun, who won from this community. This shows that Globacom is sincere and many people from this community will use Glo line”. In his remarks at the event, Globacom’s Regional Manager, Mid-West, Augustus-ndu Offor, said that the promo had touched the lives of hundreds of Glo subscribers in different parts of the country since it was launched in October. According to him, “The various inspirational stories winners shared of how the prizes have changed their lives are remarkably heartwarming. For many of the winners, the prizes are divine and timely. They are life savers. Hundreds of the winners in their tributes expressed optimism that the prizes won in our promo will significantly transform their lives.” The Benin presentation was the ninth  exercise since the event kicked off in Ojuelegba in Lagos. Winners in eight other cities, Port Harcourt, Abuja, Ibadan, Kano, Onitsha, Jos and Enugu had been the presented with their respective prizes. A total of 120 prizes consisting of Keke (Tricycles), Grinding Machines, Generators and Industrial Sewing Machines were won at the event to winners from Benin and neighboring towns.