Gertrude Uzoh, a computer scientist, a creative writer and a motivational speaker who is using her story to inspire positive change, is our Woman of Substance Background
There’s nothing much to talk about my early childhood days except for the fact that I was an active child who along the line lost a brother and my mother to the cold hands of death, grew more withdrawn. Before my graduation from the university, I had some not-so-warm family experiences that made me even more a hermit with bouts of doubts about my self-image and self-esteem, struggles with inferiority complex and sense of failure in life.
As for education, I studied Computer Science in the university. Early career
My career life has been off and on with what I’ll call a cycle of get-a-job-fast-then-lose-it-fast-as-well. People struggle to get jobs, but I get to interviews easily and pass beyond expectations. I was always exceptional with the way I deliver at my jobs, as attested to by former colleagues and bosses. But there’s this dark spiritual cloud that hovered over me. People would dislike me for no reason at all (if I’m correct). So it was always either they detest me enough to want to take me out of the job or at least make it a hellish experience for me, or I even get tired of their incompatible behavior and take a walk. It may be funny or a bit nonsensical if I say this, but in our Nigerian parlance we call this sort of pattern “village people” (laughs). They were really after me.
But notwithstanding what we call it, I’ll like to also acknowledge it as period of purge for me. Those years of confusion and stagnation, especially in career and finances, have all been periods of growth in my life. God needed to correct certain shortfalls in my character and attitude to life, as well as deal with dark forces operating from one’s origin or family root. Challenges
Like mentioned already, most of my past challenges have been in career and finances. Loss of jobs and stagnation. Another challenge was also lack of love and lack of friends. When I say friends, I don’t just mean acquaintances, colleagues and associates. The lack I mean is about this void of knowing that none is really close enough to bond with you deeply in understanding and fellowship of minds, heart and soul. And when I say love, I don’t mean romantic love per say. I mean even the comforting love shown through understanding, warmth of solidarity and support that only one’s family can give.
Now, the challenge I had with this was that family and people around saw me as “decided to be on your own” (laughs). I would have blamed myself entirely, but now I know it wasn’t just about me. I think it was more or less, about their ineptness, their inconsideration, their lack of love that wants to give, reach out to and step into another’s life to understand them and help them. Although, I could be wrong. However, I realised that everyone didn’t commit to being selfless or reaching out to someone else and I concluded that it is not their fault either. The fault was rather mine for expecting something from where there was nothing! But over time, I bounced back by once again taking my own fate in my hands and concentrating on my journey in life, putting my absolute trust in God and God alone.
Other personal challenges I’ve had to deal with at some point in my life would include having no money or food for days, and having no one from family to support me for it, or even ask “how are you doing. How have you been coping?” In those days that I was more ignorant than I am now, it used to hurt me a lot because I come from a family where I’m the last child (and a girl child for that matter), yet I was left to myself. I was still expected by “family”, society, God and my personal principles also, to not become a prostitute, a thief or any other type of criminal in order to survive or just to eat. It was indeed a big challenge. And how did I overcome? God sent me human angels, such that in the most difficult times somebody somewhere (who is neither family nor related to me in any way or with intent to take advantage of me) would surface and assist me, and life moves on. I thank God for these angels He positioned in my life at every turn along my difficult path. LovelyMomentsWithAdabugo
My YouTube channel @LovelyMomentsWithAdabugo is something that came out of nothing, in the sense that I started it as a spur of the moment. The only intention I had was to just have another social media handle where I talk or express my thoughts.
You know I’m a creative writer and motivational speaker, and most times I sound like a preacher. So along the line, I started seeing possibilities of what more I can do with the platform. I can reach out to people, I can inspire people. I can teach and encourage people. I can share my own story as a way of giving voice to the many unvoiced similar or even worse stories of people dying in silence somewhere. I can inspire change and positive lifestyle choices. In fact, I can achieve a lot just by opening my mouth and saying things that are already loaded inside me and boiling to spill over and bless lives.
So I’ll say yes, my YouTube channel has really been achieving its purpose. And to tell you the truth, it brings me a lot of joy and satisfaction just to open my mouth there and speak. Much more so, when I see and know that many lives are in it being touched. All to the glory of our God. Philanthropy
Philanthropy means using what resources you’ve been given by God to improve your own life and the lives of people around you. Philanthropy is active love. To me, philanthropy is extension of who we are into what better world we want to see and have.
Philanthropy is love that is available and responsive to the human needs around it. And like someone wisely said and I quote, “there is no love that doesn’t express itself in giving!”.
My YouTube channel and blog is first and foremost a huge philanthropy of their own, because as much as it is a form of creativity and recreation for me, both platforms offer me the opportunity to pour out one of my best resources, and that is the gift of knowledge.
I’ll be a fool and a bad servant, if I die without pouring out all the things I’ve been given, possibly. Knowledge is power, and without information we are deformed. So I do a lot of philanthropy through the knowledge, teachings and inspirations I share on my channel and blog.
But outside this, I also involve myself in low-key charity outreaches to motherless babies and widows in my neighborhood. And as God continues to provide and endorse that for me, it is something I intend to continue doing. Who knows, someday it may stop being low-key. (laughs). Mentoring
Mentoring to me, is simply an opportunity to help someone else avoid missing it in life! And it can go either way, meaning that I for instance can be both a mentor and a mentee at the same time.
I mentor others by being a good example to anyone that cares to watch, as much as I can. I also go out of my way sometimes, to reach out to people – young or old – who I feel might need guidance, or help with handling their problems. Other times, I do unsolicited sharing of ideas, guides and directives, just like what I do on my YouTube channel and blog. Inspiration
I’m inspired by the fact that possibilities are endless. For as long as God is in your matter, and/or you’re at a stage in your life where you’re no longer allowed by God to be hindered by small forces; it is indeed a wonderful privilege to know that you can be anything and everything God has created you to be. Remembering this inspires me more every time. Legacy
I’ll like to be known as the woman who loved, and she conquered all with her love. A woman who successfully eliminated the odds of her society and inspired positive winds of change that washed off the many wicked and poor sociocultural mediocrities that don’t even serve us any genuine good.