About 426 pensioners who retired from the Lagos state civil service were paid a sum of N1.51 billion Accrued Pension rights to ensure they have a good life at retirement. At the 69th Retirement Benefit Bond Certificate Presentation Ceremony held in Ikeja, recently, the director-general, Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC), Mrs. Folashade Onanuga, on behalf of the Lagos state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu thanked the retirees for contributing their quota to the growth of the state during their active years in service. According to her, the governor has the interest of retirees at heart, hence, he has been very consistent in granting approvals in billions of naira to clear off outstanding accrued pension rights. According to the director-general, before the expiration of this administration, there is a commitment to ensure that as people retire, they will be paid their pension, not later than two months after retirement. Stating that the government is committed to clearing the backlog and hence payment of a huge amount of N1.514 billion for the month of November, she added that, in October, an amount of N1.15 billion was paid and in December, a projected amount of N1.15 billion will also be paid. Onanuga advised the benefiting retirees that health is wealth in retirement and that they should be moderate in everything, to enable them live a longer and healthier life. One of the retirees requested to know when the free transportation and health proposal will be implemented. The Onanuga responded that this is projected to take off in the first quarter of the year 2020. The beneficiaries could not hide their feelings as they received their Bond Certificates. They applauded the governor for his efforts in ensuring that retirees in Lagos State receive their entitlements on time. In appreciation, they commended LASPEC and the staff for their commitment and diligence in the way and manner they treat retirees’ issues and wished them continuous God’s guardians’ in the discharge of their duties.