The Embassy of Japan has handed over projects worth N60.6 million to the federal government and government of Lagos State. The projects, which are domiciled in Alimosho local government area, include renovation of a primary healthcare facility, provision of solar power system in the facility, as well as renovation and provision of training equipment at Nigeria Farmcraft Center for the Blind. According to a statement from the Japanese Embassy, the primary health care project is valued at $ 89,106 (USD) while the total cost of projects at the Farms Craft Center for the Blind costs $84,092 (USD). While handing over the two projects to government officials in Lagos at the weekend, Chargé d’Affaires, Embassy of Japan, Mr. Shinozawa Takayuki said the government of Japan, under its GGP programme has implemented 170 projects with a total amount of US$12 million since 1998. This, according to him, was aimed at meeting diverse needs and bringing a direct impact on the wellbeing of grassroots communities, as the GGP is designed to provide grant assistance to non profit organisations implementing development projects at the grassroots level. “Under the GGP, 170 projects with a total amount of US$12million have been implemented throughout Nigeria since 1998. Meeting diverse needs and bringing a direct impact on the wellbeing of grassroots communities, the GGP is designed to provide grant assistance to non profit organisations implementing development projects at the grassroots level. Today, the GGP is the Japanese assistance scheme well known for its swift and pro-poor approaches in this country,” he said. According to the statement, the primary health care project which covers new hospital equipment, hospital furniture, a water treatment and solar power system, was handed over to the Alimosho local government in the presence of the permanent secretary, Lagos State Primary Healthcare Board, Dr. Tayo Lawal, who was represented by the director of medical service, Dr. Eniola Erinosho. The statement further noted that the solar power system was manufactured and installed by a Japanese company, 4 Stones Corporation, while the mosquito repellent paint used in the renovation works also used technology from a Japanese company, Kansai Plascon, thereby enabling technology transfer from Japan to Nigeria. The vocational training centre project which included provision of braille machines, typewriters, office furniture and specialised computer equipment for the visually impaired was handed over to the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development.