Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State has pledged to give maximum support for the smooth take off of the new federal University of Agriculture, Zuru, Kebbi State. Bagudu made the pledge when he received members of Interim Management Committee of the newly established federal institution at the Council Chamber, Government House, Birnin Kebbi. The governor thanked members of the committee for agreeing to serve in the implementation committee. He said he has received the formal communication about the establishment of the university and the request to hand over the College of Agriculture, Zuru. He said he was ready to support the take and even donate houses to the new university. Bagudu thanked President Buhari for the gesture to people of Kebbi State and assured the committee members that his Government would do whatever was required of it to facilitate the commencement of academic activities of the new university in Zuru. He has however enquired about the nature of the take over of the College ” when I enquired from the Permanent Secretary and the interim vice Chancellor because the letter was not clear as to the nature of the take over “, he said. The governor also advised them to visit all Emirates of Gwandu, Argungu, Yauri and Zuru, to hold consultations with wide variety of stakeholders including the emirs. The Interim Chairman Professor Abdullahi Abdu Zuru commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the bill setting up the University of Agriculture, Zuru as well as the Minister for Justice Abubakar Malami SAN, for processing the bill for assent and Minister of Agriculture, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono. He extended similar accolades to Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah who sponsored the bill and other senators from the state for supporting the bill. He was also full of praise for Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu for providing the necessary support and encouragement for the take-off of the institution and his good counsel. While fielding questions from newsmen shortly after the courtesy visit,the interim Chairman implementation committee, Professor Abdullahi Abdu Zuru said he would ensure that the existing indigenous students of the college were obsorbed into the new university in consultation with relavant stakeholders like JAMB. “This committee will examine the issue of the existing students to ensure they are absorbed in collaboration with relavant stakeholders like JAMB “, he assured.