As drug and substance abuse continues to wreak havoc in the society, the Federal Government has identified the role of family physicians as crucial in mitigating the scourge. PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA writes. The drug use survey released in 2018 by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Centre for Research and Information on Substance Abuse (CRISA) said an estimated 14.3 million people between the ages of 15 and 64 years were engaged in drug or substance use in the country. The survey showed an increase of about 8.8 per cent compared to results from a previous survey conducted in 2016 and more than twice the global average. It also highlighted the fact that almost three million drug users in the country were drug-dependent and unable to access sufficient healthcare. The Federal Ministry of Health has described the current drug situation in the country as a public health crisis of unprecedented proportion, saying extremely limited drugs, counseling and treatment services had exacerbated this. The Minister of Health, Dr.  Osagie Ehanire gave some of the substances abused as cannabis, cocaine, heroin and metamphetamines, saying the indulgence has dire effects on long term health and exposed the users to the risk of deadly infections such as HIV, Hepatitis B and C and other diseases. He expressed worry that the social consequences of drug use such as disruption in family lives, loss in productivity and legal problems are a bane to many communities as the 2018 survey revealed that nearly 1 in 8 persons in the general population had experienced consequences due to other peoples’ drug use not only in their own families, but also in schools, workplaces and communities. The minister who spoke at the 22nd annual general meeting and scientific conference of the Society of Family Physicians of Nigeria (SOFPON) commended the Society of Family Physicians for deeming it necessary to highlight this growing menace in the society by framing its 2019 conference around the theme. The theme of the conference was ‘Drug abuse: The scourge on families and Nigeria.’ “As frontline providers of person-centred healthcare, it is within the domains of practice of family physicians to identify and provide early diagnosis, treatment and referral services for drug abuse and mental health disorders where appropriate,” he stated. Represented by the Minister of State for Health, Dr. Adeleke Momora, he stressed that as community leaders, advocates and communicators, family physicians “are in a position to offer health promotion and prevention services within the community that will help limit the spread of this deadly scourge.” He noted that with dire challenges in health infrastructure, manpower shortfalls due to brain drain and competing demands for budgetary funds, the country currently has only eight neuropsychiatric hospitals which are over-burdened with the scale of mental health conditions due to substance abuse disorders and other causes. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that fewer than 10 per cent of mentally ill Nigerians have access to the care that they need. The future of care for mental disorders thus resides with family physicians who are the closest medical specialty to communities, said Ehanire. The minister, averred that the Drug Use in Nigeria 2018 Report, had provided statistically sound and relevant data on the extent and patterns of drug use in the country that could be used to inform policy formulation and implementation. It has also provided government with baseline information needed for the design and implementation of effective prevention, treatment and continuous care services at the community level that are evidence-based, he added. Ehanire stressed that family physicians have a crucial role to play in providing these services which according to him, will help reduce the demand for drugs and prevent the morbidity and mortality attributed to drug use in the country. On his part, the president of SOFPON, Dr. Nnaedozie Obiegbu, described the family physicians as a medical practitioner with six core competences: primary care management, person- centered care, specific problem solving skills, comprehensive approach, community orientation and holistic model of care. He said these skills enable the family physician to initiate and sustain high-quality lifelong care for individuals, families and communities; forming long term relationships that improve healthcare delivery. Obiegbu noted that family physicians have an expanding role in the treatment of substance abuse as a  result of recent advances in the understanding and preventative management of chronic disorders. “Family physicians are well positioned to offer initial and long-term integrated and individualised care that includes the personal, behavioural, family, social, legal, and financial aspects of care,” he explained. SOFPON conference, according to him, is a platform to highlight the latest advances in technology, clinical applications and practice, facilitated by seasoned specialists and international speakers leading sessions covering different areas of the practical aspect of care. He also stated that there was increasing recognition of relationship between substance use disorders and other common chronic illnesses, such as hypertension and diabetes mellitus. He said substance use have direct and indirect effect on the heart and other vital organs in the body, thereby leading to high blood pressure. The abuse of hard drugs, Obiegbu added, is fraught with multiple problems such as mental ill-health, poor education and the problem of addiction among others. 