TOPE FAYEHUN in this report, writes on the violence that erupted in Akure, the Ondo State capital, where three people lost their lives It was like a scene from a Nollywood movie, on Wednesday, in Akure, the Ondo State capital, when some irate youths stormed Sotitobire Miracle Centre at the Oshinle Quarters of the town, where one-year-old boy, Gold Kolawole, was kidnapped over a month ago and set the worship centre ablaze. Consequently, about three persons lost their lives, while several others sustained varying degrees of injury. The incident followed the rumoured discovery of the corpse of the baby boy who went missing from the children’s department of the church, on the altar. The situation caused pandemonium in area as social and economic activities were paralysed for several hours . Even, houses and vehicles purportedly belonging to the church were also set on fire by the irate youths, while a police patrol vehicle was also vandalised. When that was no enough, the angry youths also moved to the residential apartment of the founder of the church along Oda road, Akure and destroyed the property met on ground ,including vehicles in the compound. One of the deceased victims was a police officer, whose identity has not been ascertained. However, the issue that led to the burning of the church and other properties started like a joke when it was announced that a boy, Gold Kolawole, was missing at the children’s department of the church precisely on November 10, 2019. The mother of the boy, Mrs.Modupe Kolawole and her husband, Temitope Kolawole, were said to have started attending the church in June this year. It was learnt that they were invited by a family friend, who thought their spiritual life would be better if they attended the church. Mrs. Kolawole said, when she first attended the church, she noticed that the church prayed fervently “like the old time churches” and she thought that as a young couple, she and her husband would benefit from the feeling of power noticed around the church. She also said that she was attracted to the church when she heard wonderful testimonies of miracles told by members of the church every time at the church services.  However, on that fateful day when her son went missing, she attended the church service that Sunday morning to worship God with her son, and took him to the children section of the church on the advice of the church administration. LEADERSHIP learnt that after the church service was over and people were returning home with their children, she started looking for her son, Gold, and he was nowhere to be found. When she couldn’t see him, she raised the alarm and reported the matter to the church authorities, but it was alleged that the authority of the church didn’t take the matter serious. While narrating her ordeal, Kolawole said, she had often been told to take her son to the children section of the church, but refused because her son was small and had yet to walk. But she decided to change her mind and went to drop her child there and registered him as required by the rules of the church for the first time, when she thought that it could hasten his ability to walk. According to her, she returned mid-service to inspect her son, and she noticed that there was an adjustment in the sitting position and some food other than what she prepared for him was being offered to the child. She protested and insisted that his food pack contained enough food. Mrs. Kolawole said she left on that note, but when she returned the child was not found, neither could any of the 14 caregivers at the section account for the missing child. She lamented that there was no explanation from anywhere, adding that ,“I was harassing everybody, checking whether my child was there and I did not see him, but no way until night. At the end of the day, it was clear someone had taken my child away”. While saying she suspected foul play from the church authorities and would hold them responsible for the disappearance of the child, Mrs. Kolawole noted that after her son was declared missing, the founder of the church, Alfa Babatunde, who had promised to ensure the child was found, did not want the matter immediately reported to the police. She informed that the prophet only told the parents to return home and be calm while efforts would be made by the church to find the child. She said, “I suspect someone that I thought was just an ordinary member, but I realised he was so close to the pastor. He was snapping my baby’s pictures and was asking about my husband, wanting to know who my husband is. He was just a church member. When the situation happened, the same guy was the first person that saw me where I went to drop my child. When I realised that the child was kidnapped, this guy was the first to show concern. “During the church service, the guy was sitting behind me in the church hall. The period the incident happened, the pastor declared a 30 minutes prayer. He said whoever did not close his eyes during the prayer would die before December. I also realised that the guy at the time was no longer behind my back. The pastor also was strolling behind me for like 30 minutes. Immediately after the prayer I got to realise that my child was missing. “While I was looking for my child, this guy was the one showing the caring attitude, asking what has my husband done, and trying to know every step that had been taken. He was there from then till the night. Another suspicious thing I noticed was that that same Sunday night while the pastor was in his office, it was only this man that was walking towards that office intermittently fiddling with his phone. “While we were invited to the anti-kidnapping office, this same guy came to the place with the pastor’s car. While we went to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, the same guy was also there. We got to realise that he is so close to the pastor. “Right now, once we started suspecting him we can’t even find the guy anymore. As the matter proceeded, the church and the pastor presented another person entirely as the (suspect). The guy I am talking about is well known to me. I knew him for long, even my aunty and my sister-in-law knew him very well, especially the way he showed caring attitude. “Another thing that raised my suspicion was that there were 14 ushers in the children’s section, comprising 12 female and two males. While we were at the anti-kidnapping office only a man (was) among them. At the Deji of Akure’s palace, only two men came. When we went to the Deputy Commissioner of Police’s office, only two other workers were brought, not the entire 14 workers. The last time the Kabiyesi (king) sent for us, they came with three men with the senior workers. “He kept changing them. At the Commissioner of Police’s office, he came with six men. At every of the meetings he made sure that only two of the workers were consistent and they are the ones we are suspecting are directly involved. One of them was the HOD (head of department) that asked me to drop my child at the section and asked me to register the child and the other one who actually registered the child, even though I had initially argued that my child was still too small to go there. The pastor himself also failed to show up in most of the invitations during the period.” However, in her effort to recover her child, she had brought the case before the paramount ruler of the Akure kingdom, the Deji of Akure, Oba Ogunlade Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, where an oath was said to have been taken to curse whoever took the child, when the leadership of the church declared their innocence. She informed that, that has not yielded any result.  According to her, dealings with the police had shown that she was tackling a very powerful personality who might not be ruffled by what had happened as the police dallied over the situation without concrete steps towards unravelling the mystery behind the missing child. She complained about the posturing of the police during her encounter, saying they showed they were not willing to do much. However, when the parents noticed that the police were not conducting a proper investigation into the matter, they involved the State Security Service( SSS). LEADERSHIP gathered that while the prophet had claimed innocence, the SSS has held on to him for more than 10 days now and other key members of the church numbering about nine had also been arrested for questioning. Before the matter got to this level, the prophet had consistently denied the act ,adding that he had nothing to do with the missing child. Alfa had always accusing the parents of the missing child of not showing enough commitment and that he had offered to help in anyway. He also complained of the family of the parents of the child attacking the church premises and destroying properties over the issue. Even the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr Femi Joseph, denied that the police were silent on the matter, adding that the case was being investigated. “We are not keeping quiet on the matter; the Commissioner of Police has ordered the matter to be transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department for proper investigation,” he stated. However, when the rumour that the body of the missing child has been found in the church after it was exhumed from the church’s altar, some angry youths mobilized themselves to the church premises to set it ablaze. An eyewitness said, “Since the day the boy went missing, people had observed that the police were not doing any serious investigation on the matter. But when the youths in the area saw that a programme was going on in the church on Wednesday, they went there to challenge the worshippers. “The worshippers resisted the youth, then a fight broke out and the policemen guarding the church attacked the protesters. The action of the police infuriated the youth and residents of the area, who mobilised more people and set the church and its belongings ablaze.” Another source informed our correspondent that while the protest was going on, a team of policemen arrived the scene and started shooting indiscriminately and stray bullets hit two of the youths, who died on the spot. But the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Femi Joseph, in his reaction, said the misleading information that caused the incident was spearheaded by a popular TV station. Joseph said ,“It is most unfortunate that this misleading information spearheaded by a popular TV station, has ignited a spontaneous reaction from the people leading to wanton destruction of properties and injuries to many.” According to him, “The Ondo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public particularly the people of Ondo State that they should disregard the rumours making the rounds that the body of a recently declared missing boy in the state  has been exhumed from   Sotitobire Church in Akure. “It is most unfortunate that this misleading information spearheaded by a popular TV station, has ignited a spontaneous reactions from the people leading to wanton destruction of properties and injuries to many. “The church building was also set ablaze by irate youths. Some of our officers despatched to the scene to contain the situation were pelted with stones with many of them sustaining injuries. Their patrol vehicle was also badly damaged. “This rejoinder became necessary to disabuse the minds of many Nigerians who might have fallen for these wicked lies and propaganda. The public should also not be hoodwinked by reports that the command has abandoned the investigation of the incident, as the case file is already on the way to the DPP for legal advice. “Notwithstanding this latest incident, more reinforcement has been sent to the scene to contain the situation.” Joseph said investigations were at an advanced stage and the police were in the process of charging some persons to court over the matter. He also denied that the police were lackadaisical in the handling of the matter and that the involvement of the SSS would not take anything away from what the police are doing. “The SSS has the right to investigate any matter. They are an independent agency and they can investigate,” said Mr Joseph. “But that does not affect our own investigations and it does not indict the police in anyway.” The command also confirmed the death of a police officer and two civilians during the protest while he said another police officer was critically injured. Joseph noted that the police had commenced an investigation to bring other culprits who participated in the crime to book. Joseph said “Investigation is ongoing and I can assure you that any person linked with the incident won’t be spared. Yesterday, we were able to arrest 10 persons and they are in our custody. “We also intercepted a vehicle carry some of the properties looted from the pastor’s house. The police were able to protect the pastor’s house from been set ablaze but some of his properties were looted and some of his cars were damaged but the cars have been moved to state CID.” In spite of the moves by the security agencies, however, the parents of  the missing boy expressed optimistic that their son,Gold, would be find, but said noted that they are not finding it easy to cope without him. The mother said, “We have searched everywhere and we are still searching, we are yet to find my boy. I am convinced that I will find my child, I know I will find him. Whoever has taken the child should return my child, and that is all I am asking.”  