Wema Bank has reaffirmed its commitment to applying technology in delivering excellent financial solutions to Nigerians, committing N2 billion in funds for farmers and other agribusiness stakeholders. In order to help develop agribusiness value chain, the bank had signed a tripartite commodity aggregation finance scheme with Cellulant Nigeria and Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL Plc.). Cellulant owns Agrikore Marketplace, a solution-focused on digitalizing both the production and marketing segments of the Agric value chain by linking all the players from the production level to the marketing and consumption level, while NIRSAL is a non-bank financial institution owned by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) created to redefine, measure and share agribusiness-related credit risks in Nigeria. The tripartite partnership is focused on providing easily accessible, affordable funding to all participants in the co-created platform. The aim is to create access-to-market and access-to-finance for farmers, aggregators, retailers and other primary stakeholders in the agribusiness sector. Speaking at the Inaugural Partners’ Summit organized by Cellulant in Lagos on Wednesday, the managing director/chief executive officer of Wema Bank, Ademola Adebise reiterated the importance of cooperation between every player in the Agric value chain. Addressing the subject, “Financing the Agric Value Chain to Deliver Transactional Impact to Stakeholders,” Adebise noted that “holistic interventions across the value chain are required to achieve the desired impact and outcomes in the sector.” Adebise identified a low level of budgetary allocation, negligible financial literacy, a large percentage of unbanked population and the limited understanding of the value chain as part of the challenges facing the Agric sector. He added that Wema Bank has committed N2bn in funds, which is available for immediate drawdown to commodity aggregators on the Cellulant network to facilitate trade across the value chain. The partnership will also see NIRSAL provide credit risk guarantees for all borrowers in the scheme. “We are collaborating to provide sustainable finance and market access for the small and medium scale agribusinesses in underbanked rural areas in Nigeria, without the need for traditional brick and mortar bank branches,” Adebise said.