The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) has disclosed that over 17,000 women have been affected by Boko Haram insurgency ravaging the North East and has therefore launched a Nigeria training module on gender dimensions of criminal justice response to terrorism in Abuja. The representative of UNODC country office in Nigeria, Mr Oliver Stolpe, stated this in his opening remarks adding that the module, which is tailored to the Nigerian context, will be used to enhance the capacity of women and men in law enforcement for them to adopt gender-sensitive practices. Mr Stolpe noted that the module touches on the most pertinent issues of gender in the counter terrorism context which concerns both men and women. “It is critical that we commence to explore this topic in a holistic manner with a view to truly understanding and addressing the differential impact of terrorism and counter terrorism responses on women, men, girls and boys,” he added. Speaking further, he said while the module examines the roles of women and men as actors and victims in the counter terrorism context,” it seems to address the misconceptions and inherent biases perpetrated by gender blind security and criminal justice responses to terrorism which often results in operational ineffectiveness, discrimination against women, their underrepresentation among law enforcement and exclusion from decision making process.” Mr Stolpe added, “The training module acknowledges that whilst women suffer a significant brunt of terrorism acts, resulting in their displacement and large scale socioeconomic deprivation, they are strategically targeted by terrorist groups using rape, abduction, sexual slavery and forced marriages.” The director of Legal Department of the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Ms. Ifunanya Nwajagu said that “the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development fully supports the development of the training module as an important step towards the realization of the targets of the national action plan on UNSCR 1325”. The head of Cooperation, European Union Delegation to Nigeria, Mr Kurt Cornelius said terrorism and radicalization is a global phenomenon hence the need to adopt gender sensitive approaches to countering them. He therefore, restated the United Nations commitment to place women at the centre of conflict prevention platforms. The deputy country representative, UN Women Nigeria, Mr Lansana Wonneh said it is only when the gender dimension is understood, that gender discrimination could be properly addressed by the justice system. He said due to gender inequality, women are often times forced into terrorism. “The purpose of the training is to help ensure that those who commit these terrible crimes will be brought to justice, that the voices of victims will be heard and respected, and that we can bring an end to the use of sexual violence as a weapon of terrorism,” he added. 