The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) has called on the federal government to phase-out the use of single buyer model for the electricity industry, adding that it contributed to the mounting crisis in the electricity market. The president of NSE, Engr Adekunle Mokuolu stated this in Abuja yesterday while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the just concluded 52nd national engineering conference, exhibition and annual general meeting of the Society in Kano. The conference has as its theme: ‘Building Resilient Infrastructure to Promote Sustainable Industrial Growth’. He noted that single buyer model cannot work in Nigeria as the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Traders (NBET) lacked the capacity to compel Distribution Companies (DISCOs) to pay for power. To this end, the president advocated the immediate implementation of cost-reflective tariff structure through the review of multi-year tariff order by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). Mokuolu sought for the creation of Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for improvement, expansion of electricity infrastructure and revenue collection from consumers while the existing Generation Companies (GENCOs), DISCO’s and Transmission Company would only be responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities as a long-term plan. The president stated that the power sector bilateral trade with other countries should commence immediately, adding that government should reduce intervention funding in favour of private sector investment to enable DISCOs to address structural challenges holistically. He pointed out that government should provide opportunities for private sector to invest in the iron and steel sector, saying that there should be incentives to encourage indigenous private sector investment in infrastructure.  While noting that yearly allocation for road development and maintenance is grossly inadequate, he maintained that infrastructure gap in power, roads, railways, waterway’s, ports and gas pipelines, including poor access to finance have impacted negatively on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME’s) ability to survive. Mokuolu however suggested the immediate overhaul of the educational curriculum in the primary and secondary schools to reflect the needs of national development and anti-corruption campaign.