Pastor Stephen Olayinka had his elementary and tertiary studies in Nigeria, before going to Canada for a PGD in theology at Ambrose University, Calgary, Alberta in this interview with ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM, he speaks on his life as a pastor and the ministry. How did your evangelical mission to preaching the gospel started off? Although, I grew up as every other child, however, I was raised in the mission house by a Baptist Church pastor; Rev J. A. Ojewole of blessed memory. While leaving with him and his children, I would say; his lifestyle was a source of inspiration that helped me greatly in recognising and creating interest in the things of God. Due to our proximity to church, by default I was mostly involved in all church activities; my core focus then was a member of the chorister where I was till I left Nigeria for Canada. My interest in music grew and at some point, had a music group, so the love for the kingdom work has always being in me. When I received the call into the Ministry, I served at All Nations Full Gospel Church Calgary Alberta, Canada and Holy Ghost Christian Centre, London (HGCC), where I was released forth to start a new work in Luton, and that had led us by His grace to Watersprings Christian Centre. How about Watersprings Christian Centre, what is the focus of the church? To lead people into a fully-devoted relationship with Jesus Christ, grow their faith, discover their purpose, make a difference, and inspiring HOPE through the Word of God What other business do you do other than preaching the gospel? I used to work as an IT Consultant as well as dealing in oil and gas but now I only focus on the Ministry Did you study anything in school that is Connected to these? Well…in my first degree, I studied Banking & Finance and worked in the banking industry in Nigeria until 2004 when I furthered to Ambrose University College, Alberta Calgary, Canada where I obtained Master of Arts (M.A) in Leadership & Ministry. What does it feel like answering the call to preach and its acceptability from your immediate family? I thank God for counting me worthy for His work. It’s been exhilarating at the same time very demanding, but more importantly my wife and kids have been very supportive and encouraged in several ways that can’t be printed or explained. My wife is very understanding and highly helpful to the glory of God! When and how do you unwind? My number one calling is to our family, so we can’t afford to neglect them; we go on vacation and sometimes during bank holiday we eat out and attend functions. 