A Lagos State Magistrates’ Court in Tinubu yesterday ordered the arrest of controversial Nigerian musician, Adeyemi Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley over allegations of car theft. The Chief Magistrate, Tajudeen Elias, ordered that the Investigating Police Officer (IPO), Sgt. Sunday Idoko, handling the case must present Naira Marley in court on the next sitting of the court. However, two of the musician’s brothers and a cousin were charged before the court by the police over alleged theft of a car and a cell phone. The defendants, Idris Fashola, 18, Babatunde Fashola, 24; and Kunle Obere, 22, are facing a four-count charge bordering on conspiracy, stealing, assault and obstructing the arrest of Naira Marley. The Chief Magistrate granted the three defendants N500, 000 bail with two sureties in like sum. The court then ordered the Investigative Police Officer to produce Naira Marley before the court on December 21, when the case would be listed for further hearing. The prosecutor, ASP Edet Okoi, told the court that the three defendants committed the offence on December 16, at Eko Hotel Round about on Victoria Island, Lagos. Okoi also claimed that the trio who were in a motorcade with Naira Marley, stole a Toyota Camry vehicle with Registration No. FEE 120 AA valued at N1.8 million and an IPhone X5 worth N330,000 belonging to one Adelekan Ademola. He further alleged that the three defendants and others at large assaulted the complainant by beating him up. Okoi alleged that the second defendant, Babatunde Fashola and others at large obstructed the police while performing their lawful duty and prevented them from arresting Naira Marley. The prosecutor stated, “One of the vehicles in the musician’s motorcade hit the complainant’s vehicle from the back while he was throwing out money from his vehicle to his fans. ”When the complainant came down from the vehicle to inspect the damage, Obere entered into the complainant’s Camry and drove it off with the motorcade.      