World leaders were lining up to congratulate British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday after his Conservative party won a decisive victory in the British general election. German Chancellor Angela Merkel described the election win as a “resounding victory.” “I look forward to working with you for the friendship and strong cooperation between our nations,” Merkel was quoted as saying in a tweet posted by her spokesman, Steffen Seibert. Speaking in Brussels, Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar also congratulated Johnson, adding: “It’s an enormous victory for him on a personal level and also a very clear result for his party. “I think it’s a positive thing that we have a decisive outcome in Britain.” Also in Brussels, Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said: “We can increase our cooperation for the mutual benefit between Italy and the UK. Congratulations.” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to Johnson’s success as a “thumping majority,” writing on Twitter: “I wish him the best and look forward to working together for closer India-UK ties.” Leaders of far-right parties around Europe also weighed in with praise for Johnson. Alice Weidel, one of the co-leaders of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, tweeted: “I congratulate Boris Johnson on his strong mandate and wish him all the best for his exit from the #EU.” Matteo Salvini, the former Italian interior minister and leader of the far-right League party, tweeted: “Go Boris Go! The left defeated also in Britain.” French far-right leader Marine Le Pen also hailed Johnson’s victory, tweeting that it showed “no manoeuvring and no intimidation can overcome a people, who have decided to be respected and to take control of their destiny.” Others indicated that they hoped the Conservatives’ election success would bring stability in Britain after more than two years of wrangling over Brexit. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison tweeted: “Looking forward to the stability this brings and a new deal for Oz with the UK. Say g’day to the quiet Britons for us.” Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said: “From the Polish and EU perspective it is important insofar as there will be a stabilisation of the political scene in Britain. “We hope that soon we will open a new chapter.” Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said she expects a speedy Brexit following Johnson’s electoral win.
“I believe we’ll see Brexit in a very short time,” she said in Brussels. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman was not so positive, suggesting that the Kremlin does not expect relations with Britain to improve following the election. “Each time we want to hope that political forces in any country winning an election will adhere to their ideology and focus on building good relations with our country,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. “I don’t know how these expectations are appropriate in this case with the Conservatives.” (dpa/NAN) 