Oldest Nigerian airline, Aero Contractors on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria on the training of student engineers.
Speaking at the occasion of signing of the MoU at the institution in Zaria, Kaduna State, , chief executive officer of Aero Contractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi said the deal is going to set in motion, the annual On the Job Training for NCAT student engineers for a 3-month period to enable them gain practical experience on aircraft maintenance knowledge before proceeding for another specialised intense training at Aero Rotary and Fixed Wing Development.
Capt Sanusi noted that Aero is delighted to partner with NCAT because the airline has continued to play an important role in advancing the safety and growth of aviation in Nigeria. Capt Sanusi said “”Aero shall expose the student engineers to invaluable experience in our workshops on planning, detailed knowledge on airframe and other matters vital to acquiring knowledge on aircraft maintenance”. On completion of the maintenance exposure, Sanusi said that the management of Aero Contractors is pledging an offer of immediate employment to the best 10 student engineers that emerge from the OJT, adding that they shall be distributed five each to their Rotary and Fixed Wing Department. He said Aero has chosen this course of action to demonstrate their unequivocal support to the stated policy of the federal government of Nigeria, which is to create employment opportunities for our youth demography. The CEO urged the federal government to continue to encourage companies which have a proven antecedent of human capacity development and employment creation, stressing that this is a proven path by which the organised private sector can accentuate the attachment of employment creation as advocated by the federal government. In his speech, Rector/chief executive officer of Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Capt Abdulsaami Mohammed said the collaboration is unique in the sense that both parties have a long history in the aviation field; Aero being the oldest airline and NCAT the oldest aviation training organisation. According to Abdulsaami, human capital development is fundamental to the sustainable development of aviation, stating that achieving the goal of sufficient and efficient trained manpower demands a sustained synergy and partnership among the critical stakeholders. Lamenting the plight of students who had gotten the requisite knowledge in the job market, the Rector stated that, “the problem of lack of job opportunities in aviation is a great concern to me personally. As CEO of a training organization, it’s painful to see young qualified Nigerians finding it difficult to secure jobs. Therefore, it’s profoundly heart -warming the pledge by Aero Contractors to absorb 10 of NCAT students after the end of their stay in Aero”. He assured Aero of NCAT”s total commitment to the development of aviation professionals, adding that they will continue to work with all stakeholders to ensure that the aviation sector has well – trained and skilled manpower.