President Muhammadu Buhari in what appears to be a shake up across federal ministries on Wednesday saw the appointment of Gabriel Tanimu Aduda as the Permanent Secretary, ministry of youth and sports and others 18 permanent secretaries. Buhari has appointed Gabriel Tanimu Aduda, who was before now Permanent Secretary Political and Economic Affairs Office and Chairman National Authority on Chemical & Biological Weapons Convention (NAC&BWC), Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, has cross cutting experience in management, administration and consulting with, wide ranging involvement in government and non-governmental sectors. Until August 2017, He was the Director Civil Service Transformation Department, in the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation.
Aduda was before then, the Director, Economic Research and Policy Management with the federal ministry of finance; he also served as Head of Strategy and Reorientation at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC); Special Assistant on Special Projects & MDGs to the Minister of the FCTA; Head of Governance Research and Consulting at the INTEGRITY Organization; Commissioner (executive member) of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offenses Commission (ICPC); Research Officer Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution; and Research Officer Nigeria Building and Roads Research Institute amongst others. Aduda has served at various times on the Governing Boards of many reputable government Institutions such as National Bureau of statistics (NBS); National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP); National Metallurgical Development Centre (NMDC) and the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN) where he has distinguished himself as a board room guru to the delight of the appointing authority. He holds a B.Sc. Degree in Geography and Planning from the University of Jos and a Masters degree in Urban and Regional Planning (MURP) from the prestigious University of Ibadan. He has attended several trainings and courses both within and outside the country such as Marquette University USA; Hong Kong University; SETYM int’l Malaysia; Alexander Brookes, UK; Strathmore University, Nairobi Kenya; TRAPCA Arusha, Tanzania; Haggai Institute Hawaii; Berlin, Germany and others. His membership of professional bodies include Society for Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE); Registered Town Planner (RTP); Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP) and Nigerian Environmental Society (NES). Meanwhile, former Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Olusade Adesola has been redeployed to the ministry of Niger Delta.