Management of The Sun newspaper has decried the marking of its office by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over a recent court judgment on former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. The media house stressed that the ownership of the company is not in debate as it does not belong to the former Abia State governor. The media organisation noted that it is a limited liability company whose shares are owned by various individuals distinct  from Senator Kalu. It further added that the recent Judgment against Senator Kalu should not be used to disturb the operations of the company and the proprietary rights of its shareholders until the matters are dispensed with at the  Supreme Court. The EFCC yesterday marked properties belonging to the former governor. EFCC spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren said the marking is to ensure that the properties are not dissipated, following the December 5, 2019 order of Justice Muhammed Idris sitting at the Federal High Court in Ikoyi, Lagos that Kalu’s company, Slok Nigeria Limited, be wound up and all assets forfeited to the federal government. Kalu, who is the senator representing Abia North in the National Assembly was arraigned alongside his company, Slok Nigeria limited and Udeh Udeogu, his director of finance and accounts at the Abia State government, over an amended 39-count charge bordering on conspiring and diverting the sum of  N7.65bn from the coffers of the state. The management of The Sun newspaper while decrying the marking of its office, said three EFCC officials with four heavily armed policemen arrived at their corporate headquarters at 2, Coscharis Street, Kirikiri Industrial Layout, Apapa, Lagos at about 10am yesterday. A statement by the management said the anti-graft officials put up a notice for staff and the general public to keep off the premises. The statement read in part, “The EFCC officials, who came in a white Toyota bus with registration number,  ABUJA BWR-644GA, wrote on The Sun’s fence, “EFCC, keep off.”  They also advised our staff to collect their personal belongings from the office as they will come back to seal the premises completely. “We do not understand the legal basis for this EFCC action. It is on record that there is a pending appeal at the Supreme Court with Suit No: SC/546/2018 wherein The Sun Publishing Limited  appealed  against the Judgement delivered by the Court of Appeal on the interim forfeiture order made against it by a Federal High Court in 2007 based on ex parte proceeding. The Notice of Appeal and Motion for Stay of Execution were duly served on EFCC by the bailiffs of the Court. “It is also pertinent to state that  EFCC vide a letter written by Counsel to The Sun Publishing Limited, dated 22nd May, 2018 and duly received by one Caleb Peter on behalf of Rotimi Jacobs & Co. was further put on notice of the pending appeal at the Supreme Court and advised to stay action in the matter  pending the hearing of the Motion for Stay of execution and the appeal. “Again,  it is instructive to state that The Sun Publishing Limited was not a party to the case of EFCC vs. Orji Uzor Kalu & 2 Others, so we do not see why the Judgment in that case should lead to attempt to seal The Sun Publishing Limited premises. “ Further more, we are aware that both Senator Orji Uzor Kalu and Slok Nig Limited have since appealed the Judgment delivered by Justice Mohammed Idris and a hearing date given. “We wish to reiterate that The Sun Publishing Limited is an ongoing corporate limited liability company and its shares are owned by various individuals distinct  from Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Therefore, the recent Judgment against Senator Orji Uzor Kalu should not be used to disturb the operations of the company and the proprietary rights of  its innocent  shareholders until the matters are dispensed with at the  Supreme Court.” The company also called on the “Attorney General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice to urgently intervene and advise EFCC appropriately on the legal consequences of its actions.”