Concerned leaders of political parties have raised the alarm over the double speak of the judiciary especially in the Imo gubernatorial election. This is even as governorship candidates in the Imo elections have dismissed their claims saying their attacks on the judiciary are not only unwarranted but motivated by reasons that are self-serving. Speaking to newsmen on Monday in Abuja, Agbo Major who spoke on behalf of the political leaders stressed the need to save our democracy saying the judiciary must rescue itself . According to them , never in the history of this country, especially since 1999, “have we see deliberate, systematic but criminal moves by some democratic institutions: some bad eggs in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and the judiciary to change the narrative of what constitute representative democracy in our country. Sadly, they noted that the Nigerian judiciary that ought to deepen our democracy by righting the wrongs perpetuated by politicians and some questionable INEC officials during the elections, is miserably becoming a laughing stock to the world. They said “More worrisome is the constitutional issues arising from the Imo State governorship election being tossed around by the judiciary. “For instance, the well-known trust of APGA and Senator Ifeanyi Araraume’s election petition against the last guber election in Imo State, is the clear breach of the constitution by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) — by the declaration and return of Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, as Governor of Imo State, despite his failure to meet the constitutional minimum requirements of scoring 25% of the votes cast in each of at least the two-third of all the Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the state, in the last general election. “Imo State has 27 Local Government Areas. And that two-third of 27 is 18. Ihedioha only scored 25 % of the votes cast in 11 local government areas out of 27, as clearly stated in Form EC8D (Summary of Results from LGAs Collation at State Level, Imo State) — personally certified as Certified True Copy (CTC) by the Head ofLegal Department, Imo State INEC, O.Elekwa Esq, on March 20, 2019. “As political party leaders, we are worried and concerned over unholy alliances between some wicked/devilish political forces and some dirty judiciary officials, to set dangerous legal precedent in our democratic space. Because, the requirement of Section 179 (2) of the 1999 Constitution as Amended, in respect of spread, does not require any legal gymnastic for interpretation,” they added . On the other hand , the governorship candidates said  they sought the mandate  of the Imo electorate in that election due to their  abiding faith and conviction that Imo needed the best of leadership and all  energies must be pulled together to uplift and re-position it on the path to steady development, peace and progress. According to them“It is in furtherance of these goals that some of us withdrew the petitions we filed at the tribunals to afford Governor Emeka Ihedioha, unfettered ambience to keep faith with his mandate with the people. “But that has not been the case as the candidates of the Action Alliance, Uche Nwosu, APGA, Ifeanyi Araraume and All Progressives Congress, Hope Uzodinma proceeded with their respective petitions.
Without equivocation, these candidates are within their rights to seek redress in court for any perceived wrong arising from the outcome of that election. “Their cases have run through the state election petitions tribunal and the tribunal declared Emeka Ihedioha duly elected having satisfied all the constitutional requirements as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC.
They also took their case to the Court of Appeal which affirmed the verdict of the tribunal that returned Governor Ihedioha as having validly won that election. They have further taken their case to the Supreme Court for final ruling. “But even as their matter is before the Apex court, they have through sundry proxies embarked on organized campaigns of calumny to disparage and discredit the judgments of the tribunal and Court of Appeal. “No issue bears eloquent testimony to this than the Press Conference addressed by a group that calls itself Concerned Leaders of Political Parties (CLPP). “We have gone this far to show that the attacks on the judiciary are not only unwarranted but motivated by reasons that are self-serving. We have abiding faith and confidence in Nigerian judiciary. We urge the Supreme Court to do the needful by taking into account the legal positions of the Tribunal and the Court of Appeal in the final resolution of the matter. “The Supreme Court should save the judiciary from external pressures by shunning the devilish antics of those who want to procure undeserved judgment by hook and crook, Having taken their matter to the apex court, the law should be allowed to run its full course rather than take resort to media trials and blackmail of the judiciary.”