The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) is set to deploy four Mobile Intensive Care Unit Ambulances (MICU), two multi-hazard Rapid Response vehicles and one Rover Patrol in the City Centre to help handle incidents of road traffic accident during the yuletide. The head of NEMA, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Operations Office, Mr Bitrus Samuel, who disclosed this in Abuja yesterday during a stakeholders experience sharing exercise on Casualty Handling in Road Traffic Accident in the “Ember” Months said the vehicles will be deployed in the areas of operation of the branch where road crashes are high. “We are going to deploy four Mobile Intensive Care Unit (MICU) Ambulance for life support, two Rapid Response ambulance with capability for fighting small fires from vehicles and homes, extricating equipment, seasoned and experienced personnel during the course of the exercise. The vehicles will be deployed in strategic locations where road crashes are high. This will include, Gwagwalada-Lokoja  highways, Mararaba-Keffi and Zuba-Kaduna road.” He said the exercise became necessary as experience showed that death from Road Traffic Accidents (RTAs) continue to heighten around festive seasons particularly, Christmas. “It is a common knowledge that during the months of September-December every year (Ember Months), we experience rapid increase in movement of people from one part of the country to the other especially, on roads. This mass movement often lead to frequent RTAs leading to loss of lives, injuries and property loss.” He added that the programme was to support the laudable work of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and key stakeholders in road traffic management. “This is in keeping with NEMA’s proactive stance with the current global trend of Disaster Risk Management and in line with our mission statement of coordinating resources towards efficient and effective Disaster Prevention, Preparedness, Mitigation and Response in Nigeria,” he said. Bitrus further noted that there is urgent need for additional capacities in casualty handling and close collaboration among the first responder agencies.