The federal government has released N1.2 trillion for capital expenditure for the 2019 budget . Minister of finance , budget and National planning, Zainab Ahmed disclosed this to State House correspondents after the federal executive council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential Villa, Abuja . According to her, the Ministry reported on its one hundred days performance to the  Council pointing out that her ministry had  eleven major mandate areas. In terms of revenue performance, she said the revenue performance prorated to third quarter of 2019 is N4. 25 trillion and that represents a performance of 81 percent adding that is to third quarter so its nine months prorated not full year. She said “The GDP growth that we planned for 2019 was 3.5 percent and the third quarter GDP performance was reported as 2.28 percent. On expenditure, we have been able to release all that is required for personnel so personnel expenditure is on course, debt service is also on course. “On overhead, we have been able to eight months overhead for general MDA’s and 11 months overhead for some MDA’s we classify as critical. This includes the security services, the Federal Government Unity Colleges as well as NYSC and Prison rations. So, a few agencies that we classify as critical have received 11 months and we are working on the 12-month overhead release for this category of MDA’s. “So far as at last week, we have released up to N1. 2 trillion in capital expenditure and that is a 50 percent performance of the capital for the whole year 2019. “Now that Mr. President has assented to the 2020 budget which is a major achievement for this government, it is clear that the 2019 budget is also a six-month budget. So, we have achieved a fifth percent capital release for 50 percent performance of the 2019 budget. “We have also been able to pass through the National Assembly and the National Assembly has passed the Finance Bill of 2019. I believe that by today or tomorrow, the bill will be conveyed to Mr president for his assent. “We have started the process of the new long term development plan, we prepared a road map, it is going to be subjected to various stakeholder reviews before we start the actual planning process.’’ On his part, minister of state petroleum resources , Timipre Sylva said his ministry had nine mandate areas and “Today, we reported to council that we have achieved at least one of those mandate areas, which is the passage of the deep offshore amendment Act. “We also reported that work is ongoing on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and that hopefully it will be passed into law by June next year. “We also reported that next year we will open the gas sector and a lot will happen in the gas sector in Nigeria. Rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refinery will commence in January and hopefully 2020 will be a very busy year for the oil industry in Nigeria.” During his briefing, minister of transportation, Rotimi Ameachi said they are expecting a new Diesel engine for the Kaduna – Abuja railway adding that Itakpe to Warri, Lagos to Ibadan rail will be ready for commissioning between January and April. “We also expect the China Exim Bank to approve the loan for Ibadan to Kano in January, if they do we expect that work should commence on Ibadan to Kano railway route in January or February next year. “In maritime, we reported that we have almost completed the purchase of equipment for maritime security, the one they call deep blue sea. That will enhance the security of the waters and reduce all these kidnapping and other insecurity in the waters,” he added.