Radio Nigeria Power FM, Bida, has honoured the Chief Press Secretary to the Niger State governor, Mrs Mary Noel-Berje, for her contribution to the enhancement of journalism practice. The award presentation, which took place, Friday, in Bida, during the inauguration of the executive exco of the chapel of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Radio Nigeria Power FM, Bida, Niger State, saw some staff of the station also receiving awards/commendation. Presenting the award to  Berje,  the Maiyakin Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Maiyaki praised  her  for her untiring efforts towards journalism practice and welfare of humanity. He commended Power FM for its commitment to disseminating news and professionalism. He also used the opportunity to commend  those that had distinguished themselves in the station. Speaking after the award presentation, the chief press secretary encouraged the staff of Power FM  to keep up with their professionalism in the discharge of their duties and also called on upcoming journalists to learn the rudiments of the profession and be focused. She assured of government’s continuous support  and patronage to enable them perform effectively. She attributed her success to hardwork and prayers. Also speaking, the acting general manager of the station, Salisu Hassan Danasabe, commended the staff for their dedication to duty and urged them not to relent in their efforts towards taking the station to enviable height. On his part, the state coordinator, International Fund for Agriculture, Dr Mathew Ahmed, described the event as an avenue to reward hard work. The head, news and current affairs of the station,  Sode Mohammed, appreciated all those who had identified with the station, promising that it would not relent in informing, educating and entertaining the public. The Aye-Wosai Foundation, the brainchild of the CPS to Niger State Governor, Mrs Mary Noel-Barje seized the opportunity to distribute raw food and gift items to about 200 vulnerable women. Ramatu Sani Abubakar, who spoke on behalf of the beneficiaries, thanked Ayewosai Foundation and Mrs Noel-Berje for the gesture, while praying to God for more grace for the Foundation to reachout to more needy and vulnerable people.