Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court in Lagos has granted Western Lotto Ltd an Anton Piller order permitting it to search the offices of 23 firms for evidence of violation of its Ghana Games patents rights. Justice Aneke granted the ex parte order in pursuant to Western Lotto’s “exclusive right to use the trade names and trademarks associated with the Ghana games lotto products in Nigeria. The order of the court Restrained the defendants in the case from using products covered by the rights, such as, Monday Special Lotto, Lucky Tuesday Lotto, Midweek Lotto, Fortune Lotto, Friday Bonanza Lotto, Saturday National Lotto, VAG Lotto and super six Lotto) both in store and in all promotional activity. Western Lotto’s right also include “the exclusive right to use the draw numbers of the Ghana National Lottery Authority (NLA) to sell and distribute lotto products and games to customers located in the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The first and second defendants in the suit, marked FHC/L/CS/2321/19, are the National Lottery Regulatory Commission and Registrar of Trademarks. They are: Premier Lotto Ltd, Secure Electronic Technology Ltd, Richwell Plaza Ltd, Peoles, Empowerment Lottery Ltd, Gab Lotto Ltd, Payday Lotteries Ltd, R & S Lotto Ltd, Capstar Entertainment International Ltd,Winners Golden Chance Lotto, EG&H Integrated Concepts Ltd, Global Lottery Ltd, Fortune Games Ltd, EMI Systems Ltd, Mobile Lottery Nigeria Ltd, among others. and Wesco Pools and Lotteries Ltd. The rest are: Give and Take Lottery Ltd, Brentwood Multiservices Global Ltd International Lottery and Gaming Ltd, Winlot Global Resources Ltd, Lottomania Nigeria Ltd, Derby Lotto Ltd, K.C Lottery Company Ltd and K.C Gaming Networks Ltd. The ex parte order also affects “each and every Point of Sale Station and agency operated by them offering lottery products.” Justice Aneke also appointed the third to 25th defendants to represent “the class of persons passing off their lotto products by using trade names and trademarks that are associated with the ‘Ghana Games’ and or who illegally sell ‘Ghana Games’ lotto products in Nigeria by using the draw of the numbers of the Ghana NLA to sell and distribute lotto games to customers in Nigeria.” Reacting to the judgment yesterday, Western Lotto’s General Manager, Mr Tajudeen Usman said the company’s exclusive right to the Ghana Games patent was authorised by the Ghanaian Government through the Ghanaian Foreign Affairs Ministry. Usman maintained that Western Lotto was the only firm in Nigeria so licensed by the Ghanaian authority. He noted that for about 20 years many Nigerian companies had been illegally using the Ghana Games trademark.