Seventy three years old Pa Joseph Idowu, father of LEADERSHIP Finance Correspondent, Miss Bukola Idowu has been laid to rest in Lagos. The funeral service which commenced at the early hours of the morning at Foursquare Gospel Church at the weekend in Abule-Egba area of Lagos was well attended by family members, church leaders, media practitioners and well- wishers. In his sermon titled “Where Is Your Home”, Zonal Superintendent of the church, Pastor Adebola Babs-Ogunleye described late Idowu as a peerless gentleman who lived a life worthy of emulation. Preaching from the Book of Luke chapter 16, verse 19, Pastor Babs-Ogunleye consoled the congregation, emphasising that death is a debt that everyone must all pay. He said “whether we like it or not, our only prayer is that we would fulfil our age. The truth is that we must go”. The man of God however, assured that there is still hope for the living because death is not the final bus stop but a starting point, adding that “there is a time that is unlimited to us unlike in the world. Peace and joy does not depend on the money we have. “There is a provision for our life to be unlimited and a provision for our heavenly home”, the pastor said. In her testimony and tribute, Miss Bukola Idowu who extolled the virtues of his departed father said that, although her father has left them but his well lived life is their consolation in the family. “Things I will miss the most about my father is his one in a billion laughter, his concern for my safety and calls anytime I am out of the house. My father once walked from our home in Lawanson at past midnight to Guardian office at Apapa-Oshodi Expressway to look for me armed with kerosene lamp”, Bukola narrated. Entombment and reception followed immediately after the service at Idowu-Odumusi family compound in Abulegba. Late Adekunle Joseph Idowu Odumusi was born on December 12, 1946 at Epe quarters, Ikenne – Remo, Ogun State to the family of Pa Simon Idowu Odumusi and Mrs Esther Efusolabo Idowu Odumusi (Nee Osimayan). He was the last son and child of five children. He was married to Adejoke Silifa Ankuri of Ile Gbodo and was blessed with lovely and successful children and grandchildren. 