Justice Ayotunde Faji of the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday fixed February 26, 2020, for the arraignment of an independent oil marketer, Chima Anyaso, who is accused of an alleged N2,066,400 billion fraud. Anyaso was charged before the court by the attorney-general of the federation (AGF) alongside his oil company, Ceecon Energy Oil and Gas Limited on a three-count-charge of forgery and fraud. Since the charge was filed, the defendants have not appeared before the Court, due to separate applications he filed to challenge the competency of the charge and the Court’s jurisdiction to entertain the charge. But Justice Faji had dismissed all the applications pave way for his arraignment. When the case was called on Monday, the prosecutor, Julius Ajakaiye, a deputy director in the Federal Ministry of Justice, informed the court that the defence counsel, Goddy Uche (SAN) called him last week Friday to inform him his client was sick. He further told the Court that Uche sent him a letter suggesting another day for the arraignment of his client. A counsel from Uche’s Chambers, E. O. Okeme, confirmed the prosecutor’s position and also conceded to the adjournment. Before adjourning the case, Justice Faji pointed out that the court was not notified of the request for adjournment. He, however, ruled that by the agreement of the counsel, the matter is hereby adjourned till February 26, 2020, for the arraignment of the defendants”. The AGF in charge marked FHC/L/332c/18, alleged that the oil marketer of 16, Babatunde Dabiri Street, Lekki Phase and having his company’s  Cooperate office is locates at third floor of Worth Plaza, of Olaza 307, Suit 301, Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, was alleged to have committed the offence on a or about February 21, 2011. The oil marketer was alleged to have forged a letter head paper of Total Nigeria Limited, captioned ‘offer to sale dated February 21, 2011, with reference number AAC/CSO/OPS/, which he falsely presented to Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB), to obtained credit facility in the sum of N2,066, 400, 000 billion, for delivery of 15 metric tonnes of Aviation Turbine kerosene (ATK). He was also alleged to have on February 22, 2011, forged another letter head paper of Total Nigeria Limited with reference number FEB/yjo.FIN22.11, dated February 22, 2011, which he presented to GTB for the payment of N2,066,400 billion, for   supply of 15 metric tonnes of ATK. The AGF also alleged that the oil marketer fraudulently obtained the said sum from GTB as credit facility. The offences according to the prosecutor, Mr. Julius I. Ajakaiye, a deputy director in the AGF’s office are contrary to and punishable sections 2(1)(c) and section 1(1)(a) of Advance Fee Fraud and other related offences, Cap. A6 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. In one of the court’s proceedings on the charge, the prosecutor had told the court the criminal charge against Chima and his company, arose from a petition by Guaranty Trust Bank, dated January 19, 2017 and signed by one Sarah Ugamah and Tolulope Fadipe on behalf of the bank.