A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank has commended the senators of the United States of America and the America government for putting pressures on Nigerian government to release of Omoyele Sowore and by extension Ibrahim Dasuki. Frank also thanked all Nigerians, especially a human right lawyer, Femi Falana, who stood up to fight for justice even in the midst of theat to their lives, adding “that posterity will judge you favorably”. Frank further said if not for the pressure by the USA government and some of its senators, Sowore would still be languishing in DSS detention without charge. The political activist, however, declared that “truly the American government is the police of the world.” Reacting through a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, to the release of both Sowore and Dasuki, Frank also called on the USA, EU, UN and all lovers of democracy including Nigerians in diaspora to put more pressure on Nigerian government to release other political prisoners, saying “the government has succeeded in oppressing its citizens, no more freedom of speech and the right to assemble, “I appeal to the USA, EU and all democratic countries where rule of law applies to issue visa ban on the government officials of this clueless government whose stock in trade is to disobey court orders that don’t favor them, oppress Nigerians by depriving them of their fundamental human right to associate and express themselves freely, this government is very powerful when it comes to oppressing innocent Nigerians but very weak when it comes to fighting corruption and insurgency. “Sowore like Dasuki were granted bail by courts of competent but the government decided to flaunt the order. Dasuki spent 4 years in DSS detention despite several bail granted by the courts while Sowore was rearrested a day after he was granted bail without charges. “It is a shame that this government cannot put its house in order, they speak from both sides of the mouth as they are clueless. “Just last week, the AGF Malami said he cannot order the DSS to release Sowore without recourse to the court, yet a week later, he ordered the same DSS to release Sowore. “What has changed in a week to make the AGF order the DSS to release Sowore? It is the pressure from the international community, especially the American senators and the USA government that compelled this government to release Sowore.