Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and his deputy, Idris Ahmed Wase, have urged Nigerians, especially Christian faithful, to offer special prayers for the continuous unity and peaceful coexistence among the citizens. Gbajabiamila in his Christmas message to Nigerians, urged Christians to use the occasion for the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ to pray for the country to overcome her challenges, including insecurity in some parts of the country. According to a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the speaker congratulated Nigerian Christians for marking this year’s Christmas. Gbajabiamila said this is a time for sober reflections, calling on the Christian faithful to imbibe the virtues of Jesus Christ. He said at a time like this, Nigerians should come together and celebrate with one another as well as pray for their leaders to lead them well for the good of the country. “I wish to join millions of citizens to congratulate my Christian brothers and sisters for witnessing and marking this year’s Christmas peacefully. “Christmas is a period of merrymaking,  but beyond that, it is also a period for us all as a people to take time and pray for our country. I admonish my Christian brothers and sisters to pray for our continuous survival in peace and unity as a country. “I also urge them to emulate all that Jesus Christ stood for: his love for humanity, his peace-making nature, his magnanimity, his accommodating mind and everything the Christ was known for. “Once again, I wish all Nigerian Christians merry Christmas,” the speaker said. Also, the deputy speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase enjoined Christians in Nigeria to emulate the lifestyle of Jesus Christ who lived and preached love, peace and harmony among human beings. Wase in his own message of felicitation signed by his chief press secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma, congratulated all Christians in Nigeria on the occasion of Christmas, saying it provides another opportunity for adherents of the Christian faith to exude love and peace in all their endeavours. He also enjoined Christians not to be tired of praying for the nation, but to remain steadfast and keep trusting in God, who is the creator of the universe. “As you celebrate the birthday of Jesus Christ, who preached love, peace and tolerance amongst men, I also felicitate with you and urge you to emulate the love and humility he exhibited in his days on earth. “I therefore encourage you to extend that love beyond religious, ethnic, social and sectional boundaries. Let the love with which he lived radiate in all aspects of your life and strive to use this auspicious occasion to rekindle love  and respect for all” According to Wase, “no nation can thrive or prosper in a state of rancour and hatred. Therefore, as followers of Christ, who is an advocate of peaceful coexistence, it behoves on you to emulate him and lead in the quest to enthrone enduring peace and unity in our nation” The deputy speaker also admonished Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of sharing, tolerance and forgiveness, adding: “when we share with one another, we acknowledge the likeness of God in each and every one of us; we must never be tired of doing good and forgiving those who offend us. “I call on all Nigerians to resist the temptation of violence, hate speech and other divisive acts capable of incitement against one another and embrace only those things that can unite us as a people and a nation” The deputy speaker also urged Christians be ready to make the necessary sacrifices to advance the cause of humankind and the nation.