Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, has on Thursday declared that bandits terrorising some parts of the State are on the run as massive security hit their hideouts. Speaking during the Federal and States Security Administrators’ Meeting held in Kaduna, el-rufai said in the last few months there has been great reduction in cases of kidnapping. The governor stressed that the creation of ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, has raised the level of proactiveness in tackling crimes across the state. El-rufai further attributed the success to that high level of coordination and cooperation within the security agencies. According to the governor, the Kaduna-Abuja road has not witnessed a single incident of criminality or kidnapping in the last two and half months, adding that the road now is the safest to ply. His words: “Kidnapping has been a capital offence in Kaduna state since 2016 when we reenacted the penal code. Our penal code in Kaduna state prescribes death sentence for kidnapping and it has been so since then. But in the last few months there has been great reduction in cases of kidnapping. Though, it is a combination of issues, but I will like to give credit to our Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, because the creation of that ministry has raised the level of proactiveness these issues”\ “The second thing is that, the security agencies have changed their strategies from reaction to proaction. So, they don’t wait until kidnapping takes place. They identify where the bandits are and they go and attack them; so the bandits have been on the run. In the past, we wait until it happens and then, we start running helter-skelter” Thirdly, I think there is high level of coordination and cooperation within the security agencies. So, you find out that, the Air Force is in the air doing ISR, the intelligence surveillance and feeding the police and others on the ground with information. So, the level of cooperation has been enhanced and that has helped in dealing with these problems” A very good example is the Kaduna-Abuja road. The Kaduna-Abuja road has not witnessed a single incident of criminality or kidnapping in the last two and half months. But, many people still think it is not safe, they are not plying it and the rest. That road is the safest road in Niegria today” “So, combination of these three things is what significantly reduced kidnapping, but it is not where it was at all. The level of security and safety has improved significantly” In his welcome address, the state commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said the Kaduna State Government is committed to complementing the efforts of the armed forces, the police and other national security outfits through logistics support, mobility, hardware and other means. Aruwan said:”​The creation of our Ministry is further justified since at the Federal Level, there are usually Ministries or Departments responsible for enhancing inter-agency cooperation to expeditiously tackle internal security issues. “In addition, the efficacy of intelligence gathering, and prompt response to threats is key in internal security management. An excellent example of this can be seen in one of the most functional of such organizations globally, America’s Central Intelligence Agency. The agency’s mantra, “The work of a nation – The centre of Intelligence”, aptly captures the national importance of widespread and yet precise intelligence gathering. This is one core area of focus for our Ministry, and structures are being established to that end” “Improving internal security cannot be left to government alone. Insecurity impacts the local populace directly. As such the citizens must be incorporated. Various communities came up with different outfits aimed at policing their respective areas. To prevent unhealthy proliferation of such groups, the Kaduna State Government created the State Vigilance Service under the ambits of the law with a view to ensuring sanity and structure in community-based efforts. This service is overseen by our Ministry” Aruwan added :”In the five months since its creation, the success of this Ministry in terms of synergy with security agencies and improved responsiveness to threats, has been very rewarding. It has also brought security platforms closer to citizens in the interior areas” “Therefore, we do not cease to emphasize to our citizens that those who perpetuate insecurity must be treated as what they really are: criminals and nothing more. When security issues are politicized, criminal elements are emboldened and are provided with a shield to deepen criminality and proliferate their inhuman acts” “It is obvious therefore that the media are crucial to our efforts. They are critical partners to security agencies and government in tackling security issues. The right narratives must be sent out to our citizens. Those playing to the gallery by whipping up parochial sentiments only do more harm than good in the fight against banditry, kidnapping and insurgency”  Aruwan said.