Cellulant Limited, has called for proper restructuring of agriculture for its potentials to be fully realised in creating wealth for Nigerians. Agriculture is a crucial economic sector accounting for about 23 per cent of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but the value chain is highly underdeveloped. The country loses 32 per cent of crops produced annually due to a broken value chain and wastage. It is also the foundation upon which the development of stable human communities, such as rural and urban communities have depended on in many parts of the world sadly it remains under-utilised in Nigeria. Co-chief executive officer, Cellulant Corporation, Bolaji Akinboro,  at the Cellulant’s inaugural partners’ summit themed ‘Technology For Transformation: Connecting Everyone to Nigeria’s $50bn Agribusiness Opportunity & Creating Jobs For Africa’s Youth’ held in Lagos, said that the country’s agric-value chain needed to be fixed to enjoy the immense riches in the sector. In his presentation entitled ‘From Farm to Fork: Transforming the Agribusiness in Nigeria Through Technology-What does the Future Hold’, Akinboro disclosed that consumption of food, the end product of most agricultural activities in the country is worth about $100 million daily and between$36 billion to $50 billion annually, opening up a stream of opportunity in under-explored areas of agric logistics, food processing and tailored payment systems. He also highlighted Cellulant’s strides in improving the agriculture value chain with its payment platform, Tingg and Agrikore, an innovative platform built on blockchain technology that has simplified and connected all players in the agriculture sector. Akinboro said, “We are not just a fintech company; we have the technology and operations via Agrikore. When you combine technology and operations, you can change the world. We are providing technology that makes life better for everyone; Nigerians and Africans. We are the ones that can bring in the change. “Technology is a critical enabler to solve many of the challenges experienced in the Agric sector. In the last 15 years, Cellulant has actively contributed to connecting all key stakeholders in the value chain, who in the past never interacted with each other. Today, the business has built a marketplace and payments platform that provides access to markets, digital financial services, and opens opportunities for all stakeholders to collaborate better and capture the $50b market opportunity.” Also speaking, the managing director/chief executive officer of Wema Bank, Adebisi Adebise, reiterated the importance of cooperation between everyone in the agric value chain. Adebise who identified problems of the agric sector to include low level of budgetary allocation, low financial literacy, large percentage of unbanked population and limited capacity of financial institution to understand the value-chain, said the bank would continue to partner Cellulant to improve agriculture. He disclosed that the bank now has  N2 billion facility for players in the agric sector at concessionary rates.