The Cross River state government has said that the state is diversifying from oil to cocoa as its main revenue generation in Africa through the production of 120,000 metric tonnes of cocoa yearly in the state. Speaking at one day sensitisation in Lagos, organised by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the acting Chairman, Cross River State Cocoa Board, Dr Oscar Ofuka said the state is diversifying from oil to cocoa as its main revenue generation. According to him, because the state has lost her oil wells to Cameroon and Akwa Ibom, the government of the state has therefore decided to diversify the economy of the state into cocoa which it has massive advantage. He noted that the state is establishing an ultra modern premier processing industry that on completion will crush 120,000 metric tonnes of Cocoa yearly. “We will take over from Cote d’ivoire as the top producer of cocoa in Africa. That will also ensure we get all the money we need to run the state from cocoa production and with the loss of the oil wells to Republic of Cameroon and another 76 oil wells to neighbouring Akwa Ibom state, Cocoa has become the true gold for Cross River state and all we are doing today is about boosting production. “In Cross River, we have a digital governor Sen. prof. Ben Ayade and he has vowed to take over the Cocoa sector and ensure that we run our economy from revenue coming from Cocoa. His idea and vision to decode Cross River state from oil is becoming a reality. “Cross River state government is acquiring hectares of land along the 18 local government to plant cocoa. In a local government we acquired 3,800 hectares of land and we have developed that as a new plantation. “It will interest you to know that in Nigeria, it is only cross river state government that own cocoa plantation. Some were acquired during the Eastern Nigeria government and off course they are old and moribund and this plantation are undergoing rehabilitation for now. We are practising the small holders scheme where cocoa plantation are parcel out into acres and given out to small holders and we are also creating a data base for our farmers. “So, Cross River state is going to boost cocoa production and it will go very high and am sure, the way we are going about it in Cross River, we will over take Cote d’ivoire because if they can be adjudged as the best cocoa producers in the world, then cross river state with such a land mass can also our target is not to become the second largest cocoa producer in Nigeria but also to become the best in Africa,” he added Adding that for now, Cross River state can be boast of producing the best cocoa bean. With the establishment of cocoa processing industry which will be commission any moment from now we intend to produce cocoa related products that will be consumed by Cross Riverians and Nigerians. “We have set aside about N20 billion for agriculture and a large chunk of it will go into coco production. We are urging other cocoa producing economy to learn from cross Rivers state.” 