The Kwara state government through its revenue agency- Kwara Internal Revenue Services( KWIRS) has offered Fatimah Jubril Musa, a 2019 graduate of AlHikmah university, Ilorin, automatic employment. Fatimah Musa who bagged First Class in Economics will resume work after the completion of her mandatory National Youth Service Corps( NYSC) scheme. The registrar of the institution, Hajia Rasheedat Oladimeji announced the KWIRS gesture during the 9th convocation of the faith-based university in Ilorin, Kwara state. This is even as 26  of the 896 graduands bagged First Class degrees in various discipline. A further breakdown shows that of the 896 graduands, 824 bagged First degrees, 59 bagged postgraduate degrees while 13 bagged diploma certificates at the convocation. Speaking at the event, Kwara state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, said that the administration is working hard to deepen access to qualitative education that would make the Kwara child truly competitive in the 21st century knowledge economy. “This administration is committed to expanding access to qualitative education, making education functional and dynamic so that the knowledge and skills acquired would transform the entire society,” he said. Represented by Commissioner for Tertiary Education Hajia Sa’adatu Moddibo-Kawu, AbdulRazaq listed some of his steps in the education sector to include the ongoing process to renovate 31 schools, rehabilitate the Kwara State library and make it conducive for 21st century learning, as well as its reformist attempt to standardise teaching. The governor charged the graduands to try to be relevant in the global economy through relevant skills. “Let no one deceive you that a university degree is all that you need to succeed. I urge you to review the world as it is today and chart for yourself a path that leads to a greater future. I urge you to seek new skills that are required to survive what is now called the knowledge economy,” AbdulRazaq said. “I do not want you to be a part of the graduates that are irrelevant to the 21st century economy. Also, I call on you to develop and imbibe the right attitude to duty wherever you find yourself.” He also explained why the administration wants to implement school feeding — one of the components of the administration’s upcoming Social Investment Programme which is due to begin in the coming months. “One of the reasons we have keyed into the school feeding programme is to jerk up school enrolments and ensure that our children take the right portion of food needed to aid their growth and development,” he said. Earlier, the vice- chancellor of the institution, Prof. Taofeek Ibrahim whose tenure will end in July, 2020, expressed satisfacion over the growth that the university has witnessed in both academic programmes and physical development in the last four years. Ibrahim, who also advised education stakeholders to encourage early introduction of science education among primary school children, said their interest in science would have grown and sustained by the time they attained university age. “We expect that 70 per cent admissions into our universities should be into Science, Technology and Engineering courses, yet, all that children are exposed to throughout their basic education for 6-9 years is ‘talks and stories’, without any exposure to basic science laboratories, tools and equipments”, he said. He also called for purposeful dedication of five per cent of nation’s oil and gas income to agricultulral development annually, saying that the move would “make us overcome youth unemployment in the shortest time and enable us to attain the trajectory of emerging as one of the topmost 10 economies in the world by 2030.” He equally called for the establishment of agriculture farm settlements with standard schools, health care and recreation facilities to attract Nigerian youths to agribusiness and agripreneurship. Ibraheem appealed to the federal government to include private universities among beneficiaries of TETFund grants and projects.