Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the weekend said his administration will not shy away from taking decisions  in order to set the state on a path of sustainable development. The governor who decried the alarming rate at which certain individuals distorted the state’s master plan, said his administration will pull down any structure illegally built distorting the state’s built environment. Addressing Journalists after undertaking tour of Lekki regional roads and alignments in Lekki area of the state blamed the excessive flooding that submerged so many houses, destroying property worth billions of Naira on the illegality. Sanwo-Olu said he will demolish all the massive structures illegally built on road alignments in Lekki causing flooding in that axis of the state. He described the haphazard development on the Lekki corridor as shameful, saying no responsible government would fold it’s hands and allow it’s built environment to be distorted with illegal structures , mini developments. He said,” This alignment is called Lekki Regional Road. It is meant to be a relief access road to the Lekki -Epe Expressway. Obviously not pleased with the haphazard development in Brownstone Estate. “Where we are now is our major place of concern. This is where people have completely bastardized the right of way. Where people have built structures around this place first without approval. More importantly on our right of way on the relieve Regional way that would ease traffic that would ensure that people can commute from one part of the Lekki regional part to the other parts. “We are going to instruct the Ministry of Physical Planning first to come and ask and seek for their building approval , the one that do not have we will mark these buildings  for demolition. We will need to ask them which alternative they want to give us. What alternative are they going to provide for us. ” Sanwo-Olu said the builders of the structures like, The Ridge Terrace, and buildings on Suliman  Galadima Street in Brownstone Estate located in Lekki area of the state displayed high level of irresponsibility, saying the government was not pleased with their actions  