The minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, has said his vision for the federal government initiated Open Government Partnership in the next two years is to ensure a faithful implementation of the National Action Plan 2 (NAP 2). NAP2 is deeper in terms of expenditure and transparency issues. “We truly want to be transparent. We want to strengthen the National Monitoring and Evaluation mechanism, allowing for citizen’s feedback on project implementation through the use of appropriate technology,” he remarked in his acceptance speech as the OGP co-chair during a handover ceremony in Abuja, yesterday. “We will strive to involve citizens in the entire gamut of the budget process through the soon to be adopted participatory budget model. We will be opened to the critique of government projects and actions.  Overall, we want the civil society to see us as partners in the overall service to the nation,” he added. Agba noted that questions about openness and corruption have conspired to affect development, both at the national and sub- national levels in Nigeria. He further said the well thought-out decision of President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR to embrace the open government principle, has created the opportunity for Nigeria to creatively ensure the country moves in a direction that ensures openness, transparency and accountability in governance, which he said are the hallmarks of this administration. Agba, who noted the challenges in the implementation process of NAP 1, said he is confidence that the new committee will work out an implementation process that will produce desirable results for citizens in the shortest possible time. On his part, Dr. Tayo Aduloju of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group, said there is need for urgency in delivering the mandate of the OGP. “Debt to revenue shows that we must ramp up the revenue side. Investments against outcome tell us that the expenditure side has not reflected the best use of our resources in the last few decades. “Our task is to be in a hurry to translate OGP processes into tangible, measurable outputs and outcomes that Nigerians can feel, that Nigerians can see, that Nigerians can experience.”