Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State presents staff of office to three traditional rulers in grand style. ACHOR ABIMAJE reports. It was jubilation and celebration all the way as Plateau State Governor, Rt. Hon. Simon Lalong fulfilled his campaign promise of restoring, upgrading and creating more traditional institutions in the state as part of the efforts to meet the yearnings of the people spanning many decades. The governor recently began the statewide installation and coronation of new traditional rulers in Lamingo, Jos North LGA where he presented a second class Staff of office to Emmanuel Ajik as the Adagwom Izere Jos. Indeed, the traditional institution remains a veritable partner in the development of the state especially in the maintenance of peace and security. Little wonder, the Lalong dministration decided to actualise the wishes and  meet the yearnings of the people of Izere community whose Chiefdom was truncated by the immediate past administration. The governor while speaking at the  presentation of staff of office to the Adagwom of Izere, HRH Emmanuel Ajik charged him to rule with the fear of God, justice and compassion as the people can only follow him if they know that he has their interests at heart. He said “as the custodian of the culture and tradition of the Izere people, I expect you to uphold the highest virtues of decency, morality as well as be a unifying factor for all the people residing in your domain. From this moment, you cease to be just the father of Izere people or of one particular clan, tribe, denomination or religion. You are the father of all that reside in your domain, irrespective of where they come from”. The Adagwom Izere, Emmanuel Ajik described Governor Lalong as an emanciaptor who has kept his campaign promise by restoring their Chiefdom, dignity and sense of belonging. He promised to continue to support the government and mobilise his subjects to work with the administration in promoting peace and development. At Ibaas in Barkin Ladi LGA,  the Governor installed Da Luka Pagyang Pam as the Gwom Ibaas, a third class Chief where he charged him to see his role as that of a unifier rather than a sectional champion. Lalong said his administration believes that the issue of chiefdoms, districts, villages and development areas is a constitutional right for citizens. He said “as a lawyer, I am of the view that no one should stop any group from agitating for a Chiefdom, district, village or development area. If you don’t want, that is your right, but don’t stop anybody who wants from demanding for it. That is how the demands for local governments and states began and today we are witnesses to how some people have more LGAs than others. For Lalong,  people should not entertain any fear of losing their power and influence over others because Plateau belongs to everyone. “Under my watch, no body will be treated as a second class citizen or superior to another. We are created equal by God and must learn to live together in peace and unity. Let the majority have their way and the minority their say. I will not tolerate nor support anyone trying to dominate another”. He, however, warned that his administration will not hesitate to remove any traditional ruler who is found wanting. “Let me warn that any traditional ruler who is found to be promoting ethno-religious hatred, injustice, disharmony or shielding criminals will not only be dethroned, but will be made to face the laws of the land” he said. Speaking also in Bokkos local government council during the installation and presentation of second class staff of office to the Safe Kulere chiefdom, HRH, Safe Lawrence Aizat, Lalong  recalled that during campaigns, he assured the people of creating new Chiefdoms and districts as well as restore the ones that were erroneously abolished by the last administration. Accordimg to the governor  many thought at that time that his promise was a mere political rhetoric and campaign strategy,adding:  “We are today proving skeptics wrong and making it abundantly clear that you can trust us again and again.” “Like I have said several times, the traditional institution is key to the survival of our culture, heritage, identity and common destiny as it forms the bed-rock of our coexistence as a people. Therefore, there is the  need for us to uphold, sustain and safeguard this important institution. “This brings me to the mischief being peddled around by some people including political opponents that the creation and restoration of Chiefdoms and districts is an attempt to weaken some ethnic groups or existing Chiefdoms. This is far from the truth as this argument has no basis. Because if you go back to our history, many of these Villages, Districts and Chiefdoms had coexisted peacefully with one another for centuries until colonial and subsequent administrations created structures for administrative convenience,” he stated. He further said as a listening government which believes in democratic tenets and has no desire to be dictatorial, he is determined to follow the wishes of the people on issues that are just, fair and desirable for peace, unity and development. Governor Lalong who is also the chairman of Northern Governors Forum reminded HRH Safe Lawrence Aizat of Kulere Chiefdom, that he had taken upon himself a very difficult burden of leadership which he  must discharge with honesty, compassion and wisdom, warning that his Stool is not a licence for him  to acquire wealth, oppress the people or confer on himself and his family advantages that belong to his  subjects, stressing that if he  engages in self-seeking, he will crash sooner than later. “The state government will be counting on you to assist in the maintenance of peace in your domain and giving necessary information to security agencies to deal with criminals who threaten the peace of your chiefdom and the state. Also see to it that your subjects are sensitised on various government programmes and projects that are meant for their benefit.” He admonished the royal fathers to be proactive, carry their people along irrespective of their peculiarities of tribe, religion, gender or any other affiliation, noting that government will be watching them closely and where they deliberately mislead their citizens or cause them to rise against the constituted authority, he shall not hesitate to sanction them promptly and severely. The governor  called on all sons and daughters of Ibass, Izere and Kulere Chiefdoms to rally round their respective traditional rulers to make them succeed, noting that the traditional council cannot achieve anything meaningful without their support and collaboration. Meanwhile, the Long Goemai of Shendam, Miskom Martin Shalders III who spoke for the Plateau State Council of Traditional Rulers, said they fully endorsed the action of government as they were fully carried along and endorsed all the appointments. He debunked the claims by some mischief makers who said government’s decision was meant to weaken some existing rulers and Chiefdoms. He described Governor Simon Bako Lalong as the man who understands the feelings of his people and is ready to build peace.