Noma disease, a type of gangrene that destroys mucous membranes of the mouth and other tissues is known to have disfigured quite a number of children and led to the death of some others. According to experts, the disease is common among malnourished children between the ages of 2 to 5 and it is prevalent in areas where there is poor sanitation and hygiene, with mortality rate as high as 80 per cent. Recent data by WHO estimates that over 500,000 people are affected with the disease globally and 140,000 new cases are reported every year. Not many people in the country know about Noma, its causes, prevention and treatment because of lack of awareness. As a result, stakeholders have identified awareness as key to eradicating the scourge. In his speech on the occasion of the African Regional Nom Workshop and Commemoration of the 2019 National Noma Day (NND), the permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Abdullahi Mashi, said government decided to commemorate NND annually to raise awareness to the populace on Noma. The event, he explained, is also aimed at reinforcing actions to prevent Noma and to develop avenues for common actions to eventually eradicate this preventable disease. Mashi, however, blamed the current incidence of Noma in Africa and Nigeria on the incessant natural and man-made disasters (such as wars, famine, flood). According to him, the disease is caused by deteriorating sanitation, declining nutritional status, epidemic of HlV/AIDS and increased exposure to infectious diseases which have adversely affected the health and well-being of the populace especially children. “Noma, also known as Cancrum Oris, is an infectious opportunistic disease generally associated with people living in extreme poverty. It evolves from small inflammations of the gum of the teeth and grows rapidly to severely destroy the soft tissue around the mouth, creating bizarre and often terrifying orotocid disfigurements. Untreated, the mortality rate can be as high 80 per cent. “Diseases that commonly precede development of Noma include measles, malaria, diarrhoea and ulcerative gingivitis (infection around the teeth): any of which compromises immunity in a complex interaction between poor oral hygiene, malnutrition and infection,” he pointed out. Mashi said the occurrence of the disease could be reduced and even prevented by promoting national awareness of the disease, improving nutrition, including promoting exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of a child’s life. Other ways of reducing or preventing Noma according to him are education on prenatal care, personal hygiene, timely immunisation against common childhood diseases, improving environmental sanitation and poverty reduction. The permanent secretary further informed that “Noma disease is easily preventable by addressing simple risk factors such as malnutrition, hygiene and sanitation, and ensuring that immunisation programmes reach all segments of our population”, stressing also that detecting Noma early and treating it can halt and largely reverse the devastating impacts of the disease. “Nigeria has therefore established the National Noma Control Programme in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO) with the aim of boosting awareness of Noma, its prevention and care. “We have embarked on a number of national trainings, step down trainings and sensitisation activities in high burden states such as Kebbi, Sokoto, Jigawa and Akwa Ibom, in collaboration with the National Orientation Agency and Nigerian Centre for Disease Control to increase surveillance, case finding and prompt disease reporting. “The Federal Ministry of Health, worked in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO) and other stakeholders to develop the National Noma Policy Document and the Triennial Noma Control Action Plan (2019-2021) which was approved at the National Council on Health In August this year,” he further stated. WHO Officer In Charge, Nigeria, Dr Clement Peter, said Noma should be a disease of the past, and not the current generation, adding the disease had disappeared from the developed world but remained in Sub Saharan Africa for reasons related to poor sanitation, malnutrition and others. Also, the director-general, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, said Nigeria could not raise awareness on public health challenges without strong surveillance system, adding the centre has included Noma disease in the country’s  case-based surveillance system.   