Hon. Isah Bashar  Matawalle represents Argungu / Augie Federal Constituency in the National Assembly. In this interview with MARY AMODU, he speaks on the recent comment of President Muhammadu Buhari on the failure of past lawmakers to deliver on their constituency projects. He also speaks on some other issues. President Muhammadu Buhari has accused National Assembly lawmakers of diverting money meant for constituency projects into  private pockets for over twenty years. What is your take on this? Yes, Mr. President is 100 per cent right and on the right path. He is saying the perfect truth, but he is not referring to the present 9th National Assembly because the present assembly has not accessed any money for now, we have just came in, we are yet to receive our funds from the federal government as regards to constituency funds. So, to my own understanding he is referring to the past national assembly from 1999 to 2019. How can you describe the performance of past lawmakers from your constituency and what do you intend to do to make a difference? There is nothing to show on ground that some of these lawmakers that represented us at the federal level for over 20 years can point at. If our past leaders are getting what have been appropriated today, for my constituency, I think they need to be arrested. I am of the opinion that this accusation should not end up like that. Those who are found wanting of embezzling this money made available for the masses should be brought to book. You cannot see a single project to show that this money was meant for my people. Year-in-year-out, you see members padding project, members changing appropriation, changing zonal intervention project; all this money can never be traced to any single project. So, my question is this, where is the money Mr. President is talking about? So, like I said before, on my own part, my people are going to see the real human empowerment that will alleviate the sufferings of my people. For example, some lawmakers collected N50 million and used only N10 million to do empowerment; to me that is not empowerment. It is cheating the masses that this money is meant for, if you collect N50 million and use only N10 million for empowerment, who have you empowered? Nobody other than yourself. I am going to do the real empowerment that will have a human face. Some political leaders in Zamfara State have accused Governor Bagudu of Kebbi State of not doing the needful to curtail the movement of bandits from Kebbi to other neighboring state, what is your take? So, because Kebbi state is not affected by this Bandits and kidnapping that is going on in some parts of the Northern states, it is being fuelled by my governor? To this effect, if Kebbi state is free of all this Boko Haram and bandits as at today, these affected states are the ones sleeping on duty. They don’t know their job, this is selfish judgement from these Zamfara political leaders. Governor Bagudu of Kebbi state is not sleeping on duty and there is no single bandits in Kebbi State because my governor is working hard to protect his state from all this criminal activities. Some civil society organisations and the opposition parties in Nigeria have accused the APC administration led by President Buhari of being  dictatorial even though the nation is under democratic rule, what is your reaction? President Buhari is not a dictator. He is neutral in the activities of the country, as you can see even in the North, some people are accusing him of taking the whole project to the South-south and South West, this is the type of president we have been looking for. I have been saying it and I will keep on saying it, it is when he leaves office that people will realise the kind of president we have. Let us compare our past from the present, look at the contract awarding procedure before and now, before, your company could be awarded a contract without a company profile letter. You could bring it but today you have to provide a profile before you can merit to get a contract or not. You have to be a tax payer and a contractor with experience before you can award a contract. Let’s look at the government establishment and MDAs, you can’t do any withdrawal of money that is above N10 million as it used to be in the past. So, these are some of the innovations brought in by the present administration. These people who are criticizing Mr. president are people who have refused to embrace his change agenda, people who like enjoying free money but today there is no more free money. So, they should try to accept the reality. On the issue of disobedience to court orders by some security agencies, Mr. President is not the one directing them on what to do. They are using their own constitutional power to do their job, even if somebody from President Buhari’s family is found wanting, those security agencies will go after the person without minding who he/she is, if this agency violates any of the constitutional provisions they are bound to face the law, the courts are there to summon any security head that is found disobeying the law. But up till now, no court has summoned any security head for questioning in respect of disobedience to court orders that means the security personnel we have in Nigeria are on course. You are a supporter of Border closure, what are the gains recorded so far for the country in respect of this policy of the federal government? Yes, a lot of gains have been so far recorded as a result of this land border closure, our import duties have risen from 10 per cent to 80 per cent, those people who used to smuggled goods before are now paying the required custom duties, those who used to avoid income tax are now  paying their tax as required by the law, those who are crying today about this border closure are those that have been robbing the nation what the country needs to grow, smugglers who used to smuggled ammunition and other country bound goods are those who are crying against this policy. Nobody can tell me that border closure is not a good thing to Nigeria, it is a good gesture is a right step in the right direction and is a welcome development. Those that used to smuggle processed rice before don’t do it again, because these checks at the border and the type of rice they bring into the country are not good as they are harmful to the body as said by experts, but Nigerian locally processed rice are far better than the  foreign rice because the chemicals used in processing this imported rice are bad chemicals and as such should not be allowed to get into the country. With time Nigeria will begin to export rice to other parts of the world because our rice have been tested and trusted to be good for human consumption. All this and more are the gains recorded so far. Local government autonomy has been on the front burner for some time now, are you in support of local government autonomy? Yes, I am a supporter of local government autonomy, but if it is done half way then the aim is defeated. Local government has to be 100 per cent autonomous if we want to get it right, you can’t have local government autonomy without really giving them power to be self-independent, if the power is vested on the governors to select the local government chairmen which is currently happening now in Nigeria, I don’t think that the autonomy has come. If you succeed in granting financial autonomy, it will amount to zero because if you give them the money with the right hand the governors will collect it from the left hand. So, if the country wants the local government to be fully autonomous, there should be a complete autonomy where the election of chairmen and their counselors will be done by the INEC and scraping of caretaker chairman.