The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Borno state Command has arrested one Aguneto  Emmanuel and John Audu with 86 cartons of UNICEF Educational Kits meant for school children in Borno state. Also arrested were herdsmen that led about 150 cows to destroy farmlands belonging to Mallam Lawan Yusuf of Bulunkutu and one Mohammed Auwal of Moduganari in Maiduguri. Parading the Suspects alongside other Power Transformer Vandals, Modu Goni and Chris Okwara before newsmen on Thursday in Maiduguri, the state NSCDC Commandant, Mr. Ibrahim Abdullahi said  their arrest was as result of intelligence report from members of the public. Mr. Abdullahi said:” On the 4th of October 2019 at about 1840hrs , two suspects namely Aguneto Emmanuel and John Audu were arrested in possession of 86 cartons of UNICEF Educational kits in a private store located at the Open Theatre area of Maiduguri. “Further investigation linked the crime to one Alhaji Abba, currently at large.  The educational materials were meant for Guzamala local government area.  Each carton contains schooling materials for 40 pupils and one class teacher, thus depriving pupils and class teachers from benefiting. ” The command said investigation revealed that the perpetrators connived with teachers in the schools to divert the UNICEF school items. In a related development, Mr Abdullahi said on the 30th of September this year, one Modu Goni was arrested at Baban Layi behind specialist hospital in possession of about 13 meters of armour cables while selling it to one Chris Okwara. He added that further investigation led to one open land located at pompomari bypass with some Transformers among which four were suspected to be vandalised, as no document was provided to that respect. Continuing, the NSCDC Commandant said:” On the 1st of December 2019, eight herdsmen with about 150 cows were reported to NSCDC base (1) Agro rangers squad of grazing on farms of mallam Lawan Yusuf of Bulunku and one Mohammed Auwal of Moduganari areas of Maiduguri. “The herdsmen threatened to harm the farm owners for any attempt to send their cows away from the farms , but personnel on duty promptly responded and arrested two of the herdsmen at the farmlands among who are ; Buba Alhaji and Mohammed Alhaji Buba , while the other six took to their heels with the cows,” he added.