At least, not less than 600,000 requests on import duty waivers on imports flood the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning on an annual basis from different quarters including, government owned agencies and the private sector establishments. Also, from 2011 -2015, which is a 4-year period, the federal government said it conceded about N1.024 trillion through grants of only four types of waivers.                                                Permanent secretary, (Special Duties) in the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr Muhammed K. Dikwa made the disclosure at a stakeholders’ meeting for Automation of Import Duty Exemption Certificate (IDEC) and Vehicle Number Identification Registration (VREG) Processes on Friday in Abuja. “Ministry of Finance Budget and National Planning, on an annual basis receives upwards of 600,000 different requests ranging from import duty waivers on imports from different government agencies, private sector, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) through its Fiscal Policy measure of granting waivers,” the permanent secretary said. Addressing the stakeholders, minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed called for the support of government’s plan of automation of the IDEC Processes. “This meeting was aimed at sensitising the relevant stakeholders and to have a common ground and understanding in the project implementation,” the minister said. “It is expected that the re-engineering of the IDEC program would further enhance the ease of Doing Business in the country. “The process of applying for and processing of waivers, determining eligibility of applicants, validating previously granted waivers, reporting utilisation of waivers are currently all manual. This results in lack of transparency and lengthy bureaucratic process that could take upwards of usually between 60 – 180 days thereby exposing the process to subjectivity and abuse. “The second component of this project, which is the Vehicle identification Number Registration (VREG), seeks to provide a national repository of all VINs in the country including the ones coming in through our national ports of entry. “Vehicle importation accounts for about 30% of the total import duties alone representing a significant portion of our total import. “I implore every stakeholder to be receptive and come up with useful suggestions, observations and recommendations that will help the Ministry to deliver on the goals and aspirations of this laudable Project.” Recall that at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting held on 11th December 2019, Council unanimously endorsed and approved the IDEC Project- implementation plan. Dikwa said regardless of the continued incidences of revenue losses due to manual processing of applications, incidences of multiple use of IDEC approvals, delays in processing applications, indiscriminate allocations and subjectivity in the approval process have remained major constraints in monitoring, evaluation and standardising the process of granting waivers and certificates.    He said the Ministry was committed to work with all stakeholders in order to deliver the needed fiscal incentives to allow economic activities to thrive.