Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde has promised to appoint persons living with disability as members of the proposed caretaker committees in every local government in the state. Speaking as guest of honour at the International Day Of Persons With Disability organised in the state through the office of the Executive Assistant to the governor, Barrister Ayodele Adekanmbi, said his administration prioritises issues affecting the disabled. Represented by the deputy governor, Rauf Olaniyan the governor in his keynote address said “it is a clear demonstration that Governor Seyi Makinde and his administration prioritises issues with people living with disabilities and he clearly shown that with love. This year’s edition themed “Promoting The Participation of Persons With Disability And Their Leadership, Taking Action On The 2030 Development Agenda”, held at Trans Amusement park, Ibadan, was attended by people living disabilities throughout the length and breadth of the state. “Oyo state is pacesetter when it comes to creating an enabling environment for persons with disability to excel. “In view of this, Governor Seyi Makinde has put into place as a policy that every local government will have a person with disability as a member of the soon to be inaugurated local government caretaker committees”, he said. In his address, Barrister Adekanmbi who thanked the governor for the announcement disclosed further that has been moved to the Oyo state House of Assembly in order to amend the law at the local government. He said “it’s not going to be one-off thing but something that will be permanent. We are starting it and very sure about it, that’s part of participation for this year. “Another participatory that we are working with Governor Makinde is the Oyo State disability Commission which will kick off by the second quarter of next year. “Let me remind you that he announced this in his inaugural speech and we have been working as that is going to be passed as an executive bill to the House of Assembly. “We will have our own equal in the percentage of employment in every sector in Oyo state. The governor has assured us on this,” Adekanmbi noted. The lecturer of the day and a former commissioner social and youth development, Professor Moji Oyebola urged the public not to see people living with disabilities as strange people in the society. She added that people living with disabilities are the same as others, noting that every human being has one form of disability either known to the public or as personal. He then urged the state government to rehabilitate State rehabilitation centre at Moniya with modern facilities and better government attention to offer the class of people with more comfort.