Northern apex socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has dismissed alleged religious persecution in Nigeria and asserted that Christians and Muslims in the country live in harmony. ACF’s comment was prompted by a recent United States of America (USA) report which placed Nigeria among countries tolerating “extreme” religious persecution. Just like other Nigerians and groups, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Jama’atu Nasirl Islam (JNI) have also differed on the American government’s report. But ACF said that the common enemy of Nigerians is the extremist group, Boko Haram, working with their foreign accomplices to divide Nigerians. In an interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend, ACF national secretary, Mr Anthony Sani, said that “if you go down South like Rivers State, the hub of Christian faith, there are many mosques where Muslims worship unmolested by either the government or by Christians likewise in the North. “When I read that America has placed Nigeria among countries under religious watch list and cited the proscription of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) to back its action, I wonder the wisdom,” Sani said. He said that IMN is not a religion but a movement which seeks to promote the Shi’ite teachings that has not been barred in Nigeria. He said: “Members of the movement are still at liberty to belong and practise the Shi’ite faith. Also, it is important to note that there are many churches in the North East which is the hub of the misguided Boko Haram that abhors western education by waging terrorism against not only Christians but also against Muslims. “In fact, more Muslims have been killed by Boko Haram than Christians. And that is why some of us pander to President Barak Obama’s clear distinction between Islam and terrorism cast in the mould of jihad. That is why President Muhammadu Buhari always calls on moderate Muslims to disregard Boko Haram sect that is anathema to Islamic faith which is a religion of peace and preaches the sacred inviolability of the individual. “And if you go down South like Rivers State, the hub of Christian faith, there are many mosques where Muslims worship unmolested by either the government or by Christians,” Sani stated. “Therefore, one wonders the wisdom of the inclusion of Nigeria in the watch list beyond stoking the giving of religious coloration to all actions under the sun by those who do not wish Nigerians live in peace and harmony among themselves,” the ACF scribe said. Sani insisted that the US was wrong in its action because Nigerians were not aware of religious intolerance in the country unless, of course, “it is said that the fight against Boko Haram amounts to religious intolerance.” He declared that using the proscription of IMN is bad example and off the mark in the sense that members of the movement were not barred from practicing their Shi’ite faith; more so that the charges against Ibrahim El-Zakzaky are criminal in nature. ACF said that it appeared the State Department got its intelligence of the purported happenings in Nigeria from only those who profess to be in the opposition by giving religious coloration to all actions of the government under the sun, and in blatant disregard for the fact that doing so unwittingly provides platforms for criminals to hide and perpetrate heinous crimes, knowing it is not possible to prosecute religions or faiths.