Amid perennial traffic congestion rocking the state, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday commissioned 31 network of roads totalling 20.216km in Ojokoro Local Council Development Area, (LCDA) in Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area to facilitate effective traffic management in the state. Speaking at the commissioning which took place at four different locations in the LCDA, Sanwo-Olu said, “good road network facilitates effective management of traffic and transport thereby boosting the socio-economic activities of the State; it reduces traffic induced health challenges and travel time to access health facilities and educational institutions. The governor said the drainages that came with the roads will help to de-flood the environment while the streetlights complement the security architecture of the state. According to him, the provision of road infrastructure is central to the delivery of the THEMES Agenda of his administration, adding that, “it is common knowledge that tourism and entertainment are better appreciated and attract more people when access to the venue is relatively stress-free. “To this extent the prioritization of infrastructure especially, road, rail, and water transportation facilities is predicated on its multiplier effect and direct relationship to other pillars of the THEMES agenda.” The governor said, Ojokoro LCDA is a strategic settlement with a fast growing population and huge need for infrastructural renewal adding that the 31 network of roads commissioned was specifically executed to offer traffic relief to the rapidly developing area, improve the socio-economic activities and connectivity within the axis and its neighbouring Ogun state through Segun Adetiba Road and the bridge across Ilo River. The completion of the network of roads will also complement other completed roads within Ojokoro LCDA. “The network of roads will help unlock perennial traffic gridlock along Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway with resultant reduction in travel time along the corridor. Prior to embarking on these projects, traffic on the road had grown tremendously considering the high rate of the population growth and its attendant vehicular density.” Earlier, Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye said the commissioning of the roads is a testimony to the fact that Lagos state government have robust plan for the development of the area and that “we are truthful to our vow to do things positively and differently. 