President Muhammadu Buhari riled the National Assembly members recently when he chided them for wasting N1trillion on constituency  projects in the last ten years without a corresponding result to show for it. During a national summit on ‘Diminishing Corruption in the Public Service’ held in Abuja penultimate week organised by the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission  (ICPC), the president said the first phase of a tracking report by the anti-corruption agency, had confirmed his administration’s long-held fears that the people at the grass roots were not benefiting much from the funds allocated to constituency projects, despite the huge sums expended over the years. President Muhammadu was reechoing the earlier outcry of the ICPC chairman, Mr Bolaji Owasanoye, who said back in July this year that N2.9 trillion had been spent on constituency projects in nineteen years without commensurate impact on the socio-economic well-being of the people. He had earlier in April set up a constituency projects tracking group to study 12 states of the federation to  gauge how judiciously such funds had been spent. Expectedly, the lawmakers did not take kindly the president’s remark, pushing the blame back to the executive branch of government which the president heads. Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, tried to exonerate his colleagues by claiming that not all the monies appropriated in the National budget was actually released. The practice of constituency projects is an invention of the present democratic dispensation which started 20 years ago. Constituency projects and most social amenities/or infrastructural projects are initiated by lawmakers in the National Assembly and inserted into the federal government budget meant to be sited in their home constituencies. The projects funds are funnelled through thconcerned agency or department  of government and supervised by the sponsoring lawmakers. Apart from attracting development to their constituencies, the projects brings federal presence to the benefiting communities and gives the lawmakers a bargaining chip for political survival. The practice started during the Obasanjo administration when the lawmakers arm-twisted the then president with impeachment threat if he did not succumb to the wishes of the executive. Even recently, the federal government  was pressured into releasing  N100bn for the constituency projects after the  National Assembly refused to consider President Buhari’s N180bn virement request. The issue of constituency projects had been a thorny issue between the presidency and the federal lawmakers during the budget approval process, with the former accusing the latter of illegal insertions or budget padding. Most times, the projects fail because they originated outside the  normal project implementation process that involves research, coordination and monitoring. That leads to high project abandonment which is a waste of national resources. In a survey by BudgiT, only 40.3 percent of 2016 constituency projects were completed in 20 states. And of the 852 projects it tracked between June 2016 and June 2017, 343 remained unexpected, 118 were ongoing and only 350 reached completion by August,  The study revealed that 40 .3 percent of constituency projects were executed, 41.1 percent were uncompleted, 13.8 percent were ongoing, while the locations of 4.8 percent (or 41 projects) were unspecified. In 2015, only 33 percent were completed. There is also the vague question of ownership. Most times, once the sponsor of the project is no longer in office, the project goes to waste. Sometimes, the issue of constituency projects pits the federal lawmakers against their home state authorities if they belong to opposing political camps, resulting, sometimes, in one side sabotaging the projects initiated by the other. It was awash in the media when, not too long ago, some school projects built by a certain Senator were wilfully destroyed by supporters of his opponents just because he was at loggerheads with the state chief executive. Even more fundamental is the undemocratic nature of the practice. One of the cardinal features of democracy is the principle of separation of powers. In this principle, state powers are split among the three arms of government. In a presidential system, the legislature’s job is to make laws, while the judiciary interpretes the laws and the executive implements them as well as administering other governance policies. Lawmakers’ practice of inserting projects in a budget prepared by the executive is usurpation of executive powers. After all, the appropriation bill is an executive bill. This is what obtains in a presidential system; we either practice the correct version or not. In other standard democracies, lawmakers do show interest in attracting development projects to their constituencies. However, they do it through lobbying. It is not a matter of right or force. As a newspaper,  we think that it is high time the issue of constituency projects was done away with. It has been observed that the practice is open to serial abuse. It has become a leeway for sleaze and waste of scarce national resources. It is also a big distraction for the federal lawmakers from their core mandate of lawmaking and oversighting the executive.      