The Founder, Oriential Group, the parent company of OER Farms Ltd , Dr. Muhammadu Indimi has said that the closure of borders by the federal government of Nigeria prevent the nation’s neighbouring countries from crippling the economy through dumping of unwanted goods. The business mogul disclosed this at the Weekend in Maiduguri while signing a 21-year land lease agreement with the University of Ilorin to develop a 10,000 hectare mechanised agricultural project. Indimi said while countries like Benin and Niger republics eat their local products, they continued heaping the foreign products like rice on Nigeria. He expressed joy with the federal government’s decision to prevent the neighbouring countries from killing the economy and said that the likes of him in the country are ready to revolutionize agriculture through mechanised farming for maximum food security. Dr. Indimi said:” Iam signing the 21-year lease agreement with UNILORIN because rather than everybody depending on oil, the need for diversification of the economy through Agriculture is paramount for food security. ” Now think about it the way neighbouring countries are killing our economy because, our bordesr are open. They are killing us because they kill our economy. Open one border, you could end up seeing 15 countries bringing food items that we don’t need . ” Now , if you go to Benin, there is five million tonnes of rice waiting to be heaped to Nigeria. We said no, we don’t need it. They can buy, they can eat it, they said no, this is not the type of rice they eat. They eat the local rice. We said good, we too, we will eat our local rice. That is why Iam happy with the closure of the borders,” he remarked He said not just because ECOWAS Treaty allowed opening of borders, they begun to heap everything on Nigeria after rebagging them. ” And now , some of us felt that we can contribute to our food security. Before the UNILORIN land lease agreement, I have 35,000 hectares in Kogi state, now Iam waiting for another 200,000 hectares . Some of us can go for even one million hectares,” Dr.Indimi said . End