The Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) has disclosed that it has opened collaborative talks with filling plants owners and other relevant stakeholders in order to commence the re-qualification of used gas cylinders. However, the agency stated that the exercise would appear daunting in view of individual ownership of liquefied petroleum gas cylinder in the country. In a related development, more than 5000 substandard gas cylinders worth N51.3 million have been publicly destroyed by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). According to the standards body, the cylinders destroyed were imported into the country without SON’s conformity assessment programme certification and did not comply with the specifications in line with  the Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS). The director, Inspectorate and Compliance Directorate, SON, Engr. Obiora Manafa, at the destruction exercise at one of its warehouses in Lagos, recently said the unscrupulous importer brought in 12.5kg cylinders not meant for camping gas, pointing out that the maximum capacity of cylinders required for camping gas are 3.5kg, 5kg and 6.25kg. “Those are the sizes of cylinders allowed for camping. Using 12.5kg you have to mouth the burner for camping gas and when you are cooking, you are exposing a large number of gas to direct heat which is not allowed. It is a threat to safety. “We did not give any importer approval to bring in 12.5kg for camping, but approvals for 3kg, 5kg and 6.25kg for camping. In this case, the importer brought in cylinders of 12.5kg as camping and that is why we have seized it for destruction, because we cannot allow it into the market,” he said. Meanwhile, Manafa stated that plans were underway to work with stakeholders in the industry to begin a requalification scheme which would put every used cylinder through a requalification exercise to ensure that a cylinder was not used beyond its expiration date. Identifying some of the challenges to be faced by the programme, such as replacing the cylinders after withdrawal, he stated that in a country where gas cylinders were owned by individuals, it would be difficult to carry out the scheme as in other countries where cylinders were owned by marketers. “In Nigeria, cylinders are owned by individuals, but owned by marketers in other climes and once the cylinders are due for recertification, it is easy for withdrawal, but difficult to get these cylinders from individuals to do requalification. “The only way it can work is if any consumer takes a cylinder to a filling plant to refill and the plant owner checks the cylinder and it is due for requalification, the plant owners should be given powers to seize the cylinder. These are some of the things we are working with other stakeholders in the industry to address,” he said Manafa added, “The lifespan of a cylinder is 15 years and when using a brand new cylinder, you have to calculate another 15 years for the usage, but unscrupulous importers go outside the country to bring in these cylinders that have been discarded and have been used for over 30 years. These cylinders are not allowed in the Nigerian market because they are dead on arrival and they are not safe for anybody to use, they are expired and weak.” He advised importers and consumers to always seek advice from SON before purchasing these cylinders, while recommending the usage of brand new cylinders certified by SON. He warned that people using the cylinders were on a time bomb in their houses, while also encouraging consumers to purchase quality goods rather than cheap products with no economic value. He said the substandard cylinders were intercepted with the help of its intelligence report, stressing that with the SON Act 2015, the agency would stop at nothing to bring down the level of substandard goods to the barest minimum. He further advised importers to stick to the specification of the standards, warning that going out of the standards would only see their products seized and destroyed.