A fresh request to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari seeking for a loan of about $29.96bn (about N10.8bn) raised debate among Nigerians but can it fix Nigeria’s infrastructural deficit? writes SUNDAY ISUWA. President Muhammadu Buhari’s $29.96bn 2016-2018 request for external borrowing plan to the Senate for its consideration and approval raised eye brows in certain quarters. It was a similar request that was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in August 2016 and sent to the 8th Assembly in September 2016. But that National Assembly under the chairmanship of Senate President Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives Speaker, Yakubu Dogara,  rejected the request. In this administration, the Senate President,  Ahmad Lawan,  who read the fresh letter of President Buhari’s request could not provide more insight at the time he read the request. According to the letter: “Pursuant to Section 21 and 27 of the Debt Management Office (Establishment) Act, I hereby request for Resolutions of the Senate to approve the Federal Government’s 2016 – 2018 External Borrowing plan, as well as relevant projects under this plan. “Specifically, the Senate is invited to note that: While I had transmitted the 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan to the 8th National Assembly in September, 2016, this plan was not approved in its entirety by the Legislature. “Only the Federal Government’s Emergency projects for the North East, Four (4) States’ projects and one (1) China Exim Bank Assisted Railway Modernisation Projects for Lagos – Ibadan Segment, were approved, out of a total of thirty-nine (39) projects. “The Outstanding projects in the plan that were not approved by the Legislature are, nevertheless, critical to the delivery of the Government’s policies and programmes relating to power, mining, roads, agriculture, health, water and educational sectors. “These outstanding projects are well advanced in terms of their preparation, consistent with the 2016 Debt Sustainability Analysis undertaken by the Debt Management Office and were approved by the Federal Executive Council in August 2016 under the 2016 – 2018 External Borrowing Plan. “Accordingly, I have attached, for your kind consideration, relevant information from the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning the specific outstanding projects under the 2016 – 2018 External Borrowing plan for which legislative approval is currently sought. “I have also directed the Minister to make herself available to provide any additional information or clarification which you may require to facilitate prompt approval of the outstanding projects under this plan.” The letter added that the total cost of implementing the projects is $29.960bn consisting of a Projects and Programme loan of $11.274bn. Others are, Special National Infrastructure Projects of $10.686bn, Euro Bonds of $4.5bn and Federal Government Budget Support of $3.5bn. The letter also revealed that the projects and programmes were selected after positive technical economic evaluation and presumed contribution to the socio-economic development of the country. The projects according to President Buhari would be implemented across the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory. The President explained that it was necessary to resort to external borrowing to fund the financial gap required to address the huge infrastructural deficit in the country such as power, railway, road projects and assured lawmakers of its resolve to implement the projects in a financially sustainable manner. The President also admitted  that the World Bank had provided the sum of $575m for the purpose of reconstructing and rehabilitating the North East. He said the amount, which was outside the 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan had been earmarked for urgent implementation in the region. Some of the areas of intervention according to him are, Polio Eradication support and routine immunization project- ($125m); Community and Social Development Project ($75m). Others are the Nigeria States Health Programme Investment project ($125m); State Education Programme Investment Project ($100m); Nigeria Youth Employment and Social Support Project ($100m) and the Fadama III Project ($50m). The President therefore urged the Senate  to immediately approve the $575m grant by the World Bank to enable its immediate disbursement before further consideration and authorization of the 2016-2018 borrowing plan. Many Nigerians, including former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Muhammadu Sanusi II and the national chairman of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) Falalu Bello have been speaking about the borrowing plan. Even though the request is before the two chambers of the National Assembly, the spokesperson of the Senate, Godiya Akwashiki, said they will consider the request on its merit. Akwashiki who said the 8th Senate rejected the proposal for lack of details, said Nigerians should be patient with the parliament as details of the expenditure contained in the request would soon be made public. “The 8th Senate rejected the request because there was no details of what the President wants to use the money for. “Details would be provided along with this request and we will consider it on its merit,” he said. Nigeria’s debt profile rose by 2.3 per cent to $81.27 billion (N24.947 trillion) as at March 2019, according to the Debt Management Office (DMO) data. In its Q1 public data report released penultimate Wednesday, the Debt Management Office said the figure represents N560 billion increase in the total public debt from $79.437 billion recorded in December 2018. According to the DMO, domestic debt recorded N458.363 billion increase across federal, states and federal capital territory while external debt increased by N101.6 billion during the same period. The director-general of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Patience Oniha, said that the “total public debt to GDP ratio stands at 19.03 per cent which is within the 25 per cent debt limit imposed by the government.” LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that Foreign Debt level of the Federal government, States & FCT stand at $25.61 billion. Domestic debt level had the federal government,  owing $42.72 billion while State and FCT’s local debt is put at $12.94 billion. The national chairman of PRP, Falalu Bello has raised the alarm that the country’s debt profile has skyrocketed from $10bn when President Buhari took over in 2015 to $84bn. Bello who was at different times the managing director of Unity, Habib and Intercity banks, while speaking during a media dialogue in Abuja, urged the National Assembly not to approve the $29.9bn loan request before it. Describing as unacceptable the rising debt profile of the country, he said if the new request is approved, the country’s debt profile would be over $100bn. “When it came into office in 2015, the government inherited a debt burden of just $10 billion, today our country’s debt exposure has spiralled up to about $84billion. Yet there is hardly anything on the ground to show for this staggering debt profile,” Bello said adding that profligacy must stop before the country and its present and future generations become indentured slaves. “Already debt servicing is costing us almost half the budget with nothing left for development,” Bello said while faulting the federal government’s claims that the country debt to GDP ratio was low. He said: “The justification was wrong, looking at the amount being used for debt servicing and the utilisation of previous loans. He said the ratio only favours developed countries and not a developing country like Nigeria. Stop subsidy on foreign exchange, he urged the federal government, as this he said benefits only a very few at the expense of the masses. “Multiple Exchange Rates of N305 to a dollar for government business; N345 to a dollar for the Interbank Market; and N345  to a dollar at the Import and Export window benefits only a few and deprives the Federal, States and Local Governments of much needed revenue. “The President should order the merger of these rates to increase revenues to the 3 tiers of Government and eliminate the arbitrage benefiting only the corrupt in the system,” he said. Buhari’s promise to end fuel subsidy not fulfilled The PRP national chairman said the president has failed to fulfil his campaign promise to stop the fraud being perpetrated under the payment of fuel subsidy. “Stop the fraud in the Fuel Subsidy regime which the APC Government and President Muhammadu Buhari have promised to stop during their electioneering campaigns. “Mr. President Sir, the petroleum subsidy fraud you have identified and promised to stop is continuing and has even become bigger and need to be brought to an end,” he said. The party urged other states legislature to emulate the Zamfara State House Of Assembly and repeal laws which approve bogus retirement package for former governors. Scoring the Buhari’s administration low in the area security, he said, “for example, they are reported to be active in Borno state. Kidnapping which started in the South South region of Nigeria has now spread northwards and is manifest in places such as Abuja – Kaduna, Abuja – Lokoja highways and almost all parts of the Nation. “Banditry is in almost all the 6 states of the North West where human beings are being killed like rats.” Bello who predicted that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would split before the 2023 elections, said the PRP has alternative blueprints to address the challenges facing the country,” the party chairman said. But the chairman, Senate Committee on National Planning and Economic Affairs,  Olubunmi Adetumbi, said no government anywhere in the world is exempted from borrowing. He said government resorts to borrowing if it must fulfill it’s ambitious promises and fix the infrastructure. According to Adetumbi, any government that does not borrow, must scale down some of its developmental plans. He said: “Nigeria currently has a budget of N10.33trn definitely, we have to generate revenue in that order, otherwise it will become a statement of wish that may not be accomplished. We have to look at our revenue potentials and actual situation. “Borrowing is to fund deficit. If there is a shortfall in the internal revenue capacity of the country, there are two options. It is either we scale down on our aspirations on what needs to be done, or we look for money by other means,” Adetumbi said. He said: “As a committee, we oversight the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission,  which is an institution of the Federation to look at the revenue opportunities of the country and make sure that they go into the Consolidated Revenue Account. “Our Committee would have a retreat with the commission in January next year to look at how we could block all leakages in our revenue centre across the federation. “It is quite possible, that if our revenue mobilisation architecture is sufficiently safeguarded, against leakages, it is possible that Nigeria may not need to borrow as much as it is currently borrowing. “But for now, in the absence of those blockages, we would either scale down our aspirations in terms of what we want to do, or we look for alternative means. That is the reality and there is no shying away from the fact,” Adetumbi added. Asked if he felt that the idea of borrowing was healthy for the economy or not, Adetunmbi said, “It is difficult to say that borrowing was not healthy for the economy because,  even in corporation, there is difference between equity and loans. “It is not everything that you can do with your own resources. That is why lending institutions are there. I think Nigerians should be more interested in following our money rather than questioning where the money is coming from,” Adetunmbi said. He nonetheless, challenged Nigerians to probe the utilisation of the revenue accruable to government, either generated internally or sourced from foreign lending institutions, and make sure that it delivers value to the economy. Many political pundits are of the opinion that Nigerians must ‘follow the money’ on any project the government embarks upon or plans to embark on in order to ensure value and equity.