Stakeholders in the Nigerian maritime sector have called on the federal government to intervene in order to make the nation’s seaports situated in the Eastern part of the country to be more attractive for users. The stakeholders also demanded for an increase in incentives provided for those using the Eastern ports (South-South and South East) even as they pointed out that the present incentives are not good enough to attract port users. According to them, there should be punishment for those who violate the rules of the game in the cargo chain clearance, saying that impunity has become the bane of the maritime industry because no one was ever punished for any violation of the rules. In the same vein, they also called for more awareness on the introduction of the Port Service Support Portal (PSSP), especially in the ports situated in the East to promote transparency and consistent application of standards in the nation’s seaports. These were some of the positions taken by stakeholders at a one-day roundtable to ensure effective and efficient service delivery in Nigeria’s seaports organised by the Maritime Anti-corruption Network (MACN) in conjunction with the Convention on Business Integrity (CBI) and the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA). The roundtable with the theme, “Towards Standard Operating Procedures That Works in Nigeria’s Sea Ports and Terminals” took place at the Rivers State capital, Port Harcourt. The event attracted stakeholders in maritime industry and beyond. In his welcome remarks at the occasion, the chief executive officer of CBI, Mr. Soji Apampa said the portal was targeted at eliminating corruption and “elements of delay” in the turn-around of ships in the country’s ports. In his contribution, the deputy director, Complaints Unit, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Mr. Moses Fadipe, pointed out that the support portal would help to submit and track complaints, recalling that the portal was launched in June 2017 by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. An anti-corruption crusader, Mr. Vebek Menon, said that so far only five cases of complaints had been reported through the portal and that the matter raised would be addressed without prejudice. Former national president, the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Chief Ernest Elochukwu in his own contribution, queried why government could not fashion out ways to stop corruption in the maritime sector and why there are no harsh consequences for failure to deliver.