The federal government has assured Nigerians that the $22.7 billion loan it plans to take from some international financial institutions will be judiciously utilised once the National Assembly gives its approval. Apparently reacting to the mounting opposition to the loan request, the government said that the money is tied to specific projects, which will be strictly implemented. Among top officials of the government, who spoke in Abuja, yesterday, on how the loan would be used were the ministers of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, her Works and Housing counterpart, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), the minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, and the director-general of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Patience Oniha. Ahmed, who led the officials to defend the loan request before the House of Representatives Committee on Aids, Loans and Debt Management, headed by Hon. Safana Dayyabu, declared that “every kobo borrowed will be judiciously used.” She told the lawmakers that the government needed to borrow the money to bridge the infrastructural gap in the country. The minister said that it would also be used to fund the budget, improve on infrastructure development and create jobs for Nigerians. Ahmed said: “We need to invest in roads, rails, and to grow the economy more than we doing at the moment. The loans are strictly for infrastructure development, so that we can address the deficit that we have. We know we must comply with some criteria.” She said that “Nigeria does not have a debt sustainability problem but revenue challenge and assured the lawmakers that “every kobo borrowed will be judiciously used.” In his presentation, Fashola said that the government cannot “ignore the demands for infrastructural sustainability. It is right to have this hearing because we cannot ignore the concerns of the members of the public on the debt profile of the country. “As we cannot ignore the concerns about debts, so we cannot ignore the concerns and demands for the provision of life-sustaining infrastructure. “So, everybody wants a road, everybody wants a rail project, everybody wants a port and efficient airports. They want to ensure that our ports are efficient so that business can function more effectively, so that the clearing of goods can occur more quickly and cheaply. “And in the midst of these physical challenges, the minister of finance, budget and national planning has declared that the revenues are not just there to meet these challenges,” he said. He disclosed that there were 524 ongoing road projects across the country and lamented that there was no money to complete them. “No fewer than 524 road projects are currently being executed nationwide. The sum of N73 billion was released this year for them. We have contractors willing to work but we cannot pay them. We have had deficit budgets for a long time and so we have to borrow. “Over four years, we have never received full funding for any budget. We must find a way to finance these assets. We will be spending today’s money to secure tomorrow assets,” he stated. On the current status of the East-West Road, the minister said that it was not under his ministry, but remarked that a substantial part of it had been completed. According to Fashola, “the East-West Road is not under my ministry but the Niger Delta Affairs Ministry. I can say here that a substantial part of that road has been executed. I drove through the stretch in 2016. A large part of it has been completed.” On the Benin-Auchi-Okene Road, Fashola said that “from the briefings by the Ministry of Finance, there are external borrowings. There are also internal borrowings. The road is being funded under SUKUK which is local borrowing. This is not enough to fund all the roads. When we got N100 billion, we shared it across the six zones in the country.” Fashola dismissed the claims that Nigerian roads are not built up to standard. “Nigerian roads are designed in line with global standards. We are not doing things as we want but according to global standards,” he insisted. Similarly, Saraki (minister of state for transport), who asserted that borrowing was inevitable, emphasised the need to complete the Kano-Lagos and the Niger Delta coast rail projects.  FG Borrowing To Fund Viable Projects, Says DMO Also yesterday, the Debt Management Office (DMO) said that the federal government was borrowing to fund capital projects that have verifiable capacity and with potential to turn the Nigerian economy around. In a press statement tagged: “Stimulating Economic Growth Diversification and Investing in Human Capital through the 2016-2018 Medium-Term External Borrowing Plan,” the DMO said that there was no need for worry over the fresh loans since they were not meant to finance recurrent expenditures. It said that “the justification for the borrowing is that many of the projects in the plan are for the development of infrastructure in the areas of roads, railways, waterways and power, which will help to unleash the potential of the Nigerian economy. “Other loans, such as those for the educational sector, will contribute to the development of Nigeria’s human capital, while loans for agriculture will be used to diversify the economy. There will also be funding for development finance institutions to enhance access to finance for micro, small and medium scale enterprises,” the agency said. President Muhammadu Buhari had recently submitted a request to the National Assembly for approval of the “2016-2018 Medium-Term External Borrowing Plan” for the sum of $22.718 billion. The DMO said the $22.718 billion loan request was not new, adding that it represents those borrowings which were submitted to the 8th National Assembly but were yet to be approved before the expiration of that dispensation. The debt office said the requests in the plan are proposed borrowings from multilateral and bilateral lenders. “The proposed loans are concessional, semi-concessional, long-tenored and are for the purpose of financing infrastructure and other developmental social projects all of which have multiplier effects in terms of job creation, business opportunities and overall increase in Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Also, the benefits are long-term and will serve generations of Nigerians,” the DMO statement read in part. It added that the proposed new borrowing is consistent with the subsisting Debt Management Strategy which seeks to replace short-term high interest cost domestic debt with low interest long-term external debt and is among the measures being implemented to moderate the level of debt service. The achievements in this regard are evidenced in the declining share of Domestic Debt in the Total Public Debt from over 83 per cent in December 2015 to about 68 per cent in June 2019. Nigeria has a ceiling of 25 per cent on the total public debt stock to GDP Ratio (Debt/GDP) which it has operated within. The ratios for December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2019, were 19.09 per cent and 18.99 per cent respectively.