The Kebbi State Government says it is worried over the spate of happenings within the social media environment especially the circulation of fake news. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu stated this in his speech at the opening ceremony of three day training workshop for Media Practitioners in Kebbi State organised by the Kebbi State Chapter of NUJ at the Presidential Banquet Hall in Birnin Kebbi. Bagudu said while the media is used for more productive purposes of genuine information dissemination, societal reorientation and entrepreneurship, many media practitioners now use to peddle rumour and circulate fake news in the social media. He said the training was a bold step to provide training to users of social media with a view to sanitizing the practice and make usage complaint with ethics and principles of the online media. “This  training is aim at giving you special skills on the use of Social Media and content development with a view to sanitizing the use and practice of medium”, he said. Bagudu explained that since assumption of office in 2015, conscious effort have been made to reposition media stations owned by the state government to meet the yearnings of the people. “In spite of the dearth of funds, the Government awarded and paid contract for the digitization of the State Radio and Television stations at Birnin Kebbi, Koko and Zuru, the contract is almost completed “, he said. Bagudu opined that his Government was open to the media to make inquiries and seek explanations “the state is friend of the media and shall continue to be so “, he said. Earlier, the Chairman of the association in the state, Alhaji Aliyu Jajirma, expressed optimism that the workshop was expected to change the face of new media practice in the state for the better. He called on the media practitioners to always remain guided by the ethics of the profession. “Only ethical conduct can define our contribution to good governance and national development. “The spate of hate speech, fake news and rumour mongering perpetuate by some new media practitioners is increasingly becoming a serious threat to our national life,” Aliyu said. 