The Ministerial Task Team on Decongestion of Traffic in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has directed the Abuja Markets Management Limited (AMML) to immediately address the perennial traffic situation in and around Wuse Market. The directive is contained in a letter dated December 10th, 2019 which was signed by the chairman of the task team, Ikharo Attah and addressed to the managing director of AMML. In the letter, Attah noted with dismay the continuous traffic gridlock around the popular Wuse Market as vehicles entered and exited from the market. “Having studied the situation at Wuse Market for over two months, we have come to a conclusion that the problem lies within the market itself.  A situation where vehicles enter the market in geometric proportion and exit in arithmetic proportion shows that something is significantly not adding up”. “Every market or shopping centre where vehicular movement does not show a balance in entry and exit always experience chaotic traffic gridlock in roads around them.” The task team chairman pointed out that the FCT administration having addressed the traffic problems at Nyanya, Dutse Alhaji and Kubwa expressway would not ignore the disturbing traffic problem around Wuse market, which is located in the heart of the city. Attah told the market managers to immediately take urgent and bold steps to address the problem which made it difficult to traverse roads around the market. He pointed out that the FCT minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, have been briefed on the issue and has shown total commitment to addressing the problem, warning that if the traffic problem is not immediately solved by the market managers that the task team would move in and take very drastic steps to restore traffic sanity in and around the market. Responding, the managing director of AMML, Abubakar Usman Faruk, noted that the observation by the ministerial task team did not come as a surprise, adding that the markets managers would collaborate with stakeholders, the task team and other agencies to work out a quicker and sustainable solution to the traffic challenge in the market. Faruk, who spoke to LEADERSHIP through the corporate affairs manager of AMML, Innocent Amaechina, pointed out that Wuse market has remained a shopping destination of choice for many FCT residents, adding that one of the challenges that comes with such privilege is traffic gridlock.