Residents of Iboropo Akoko, Ondo State whose houses were destroyed by rainstorm are still lamenting and  counting their losses months after the incident. The rainstorm victims of Iboropa Akoko in Akoko North East local government area of the state who were recently devastated with rainstorm also lamented lack of any assistance from any quarter including government. Our correspondent who visited the ancient town, saw many houses which roofs were blown off still remained unrepaired. Such houses included that of the immediate past monarch of the town, an Anglican church and its Vicarage, a school and some private houses. Speaking, a community leader, Mr. Lawrence Ako, lamented the nonchalant attitude of government to the plight of the people, as many of the victims cannot afford to roof their houses because of poverty considering the hike in prices of building materials. Ako appealed to federal, state and local governments to come to their aid . Similar situation happened at Eshe Akoko where houses affected including the CAC church in the town which was badly damaged with musical instruments worth a million. An Eshe Akoko community leader, Mr. Jacob Adekanbi, revealed that many houses owned by individuals were now destroyed. He called on wealthy and spirited members of the public and government to assist them. Meanwhile, as part of collaborative efforts to reduce incessant road carnages in Akoko area of the state particularly the Ajowa Gedegede Ikaram Erusu to Arigidi road which in the recent time recorded a number of motor accidents claiming lives and property, the chairman, Akoko North West local government area, Elder Samson Akande, has donated sign posts at the bridge and a dangerous bend between Gedegede and Show Akoko where many had met their untimely death as a result of road accidents. He noted that government cannot fold arms to such development without actions or  steps to address the dangerous situation before more devastating incidents would happen on the road. The chairman, Ajowa Akoko community, Mr. Ajayi Bakare berated the high speeds and recklessness of motorists passing the area to the northern parts of the country leading to incessant road accidents. Bakare appealed to road maintenance agencies to build bumps or speed checks on the road to reduce road accidents. The community leader appealed to government to recall the contractor handling Ajowa to IkareAkoko road project to complete less than 2 kilometre Imo  Agbaluku road abandoned five years ago.