As all 2019 post-election and judicial processes have been concluded in Akwa Ibom State, the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has offered olive branch to its members who defected to the opposition and assured them of smooth integration. Addressing newsmen at the party’s secretariat yesterday in Uyo,  the state chairman of the party, Obong Paul Ekpo said  the doors of the  party are wide  open for all those seeking or desiring to join  afresh, or those returning home after a sojourn in strange political lands and  assured them that there will be no segregation or discrimination. Ekpo said that he has directed all ward and chapter chairmen across the 31 local government areas of the state to create receptive environment for those intending to come back. ‘’The mantle of leadership has been handed back to Governor Udom Emmanuel to complete his full season of two terms and we join him in extending the olive branch to all our friends from other political parties, to join hearts, heads and hands with him to build an Akwa Ibom of our dreams- a state which we can bequeath you our succeeding generations as a goodly inheritance without blemish. We appeal to members of the opposition to accept the unity call of the governor and contribute ideas, mobilize physical and spiritual support for the governor in this his second and last term.” ‘’Let me now specially congratulate the divinely mandated, electorally successful and judiciary confirmed governor of Akwa Ibom State, Governor Udom Emmanuel- truly the Lord who saw the total reliance of our Governor on Him, showed up mightily on our behalf and granted us unquestionable victory. ‘’ This victory covered all our candidates and we are witnesses to the efficacy of the Only God. ‘’I also congratulate the members of the National and state Assemblies on their success at the polls and court. I again remind them to call to mind the required sacrifice demanded by public office. There will be no excuse for poor performance; therefore all our candidates must strive to deliver creditably on their mandate, conscious that their scorecard will affect the future chances of our party,” he said.   