Friends and close associates of the estranged husband of the daughter to the Kaduna Business mogul, Sani Dauda, popularly known as ASD, have called for all parties to cease fire and follow the path of peace. This is just  as they challenged the estranged wife, Nasiba to substantiate all her allegations against their friend, urging her to seek for Allah’s forgiveness. Addressing a press conference Sunday in Abuja, some closed associates of Abubakar Musa, led by the dean, Students Affairs  Division of the University of Abuja, Dr. Abubakar Umar Kari, called on the Nasiba to withdraw her allegation against their friend, who they described as a man of character, integrity and honesty.” Kari said, “the allegations leveled against him (Abubakar) by Nasiba and her co-travellers are baseless, mischievous, preposterous and nothing but tissues of lies. “We would like to call on Nasiba Sani Dauda to, without any delay, retract, withdraw and apologise the very wild allegation she levied against her estranged husband which she knows not to be true, and seeks for Allah’s forgiveness.” Abubakar’s associates also described as strange the intervention by a group known as Muslims Lawyers Association of Nigeria (MULAN), Kaduna branch. According to them, the MULAN’s antics and stand on the issue is neither Islamic nor in accord with the principles of natural justice, equity and good conscience. “We have watched with growing concern, alarm, disbelief and shock the deliberate attempt by some persons to malign, defame and destroy the good and well-earned reputation of our friend. There appears to be a well-oiled campaign of calumny and orchestrated misrepresentation of what ordinarily is a pure family problem that is now lashed upon to drag the name of our friend in the mud, as evidence in sudden flurry of sponsored false and malicious stories in the media. “We therefore gathered here today in solidarity with our friend and comrade and to assure him that we firmly stand with him and to tell the world that contrary to what his traducers and detractors would want others to believe, Abubakar Musa is a man of character and honesty.