The Nigeria Senate Joint Committee on Navy, Marine Transport and Finance on Thursday vindicated the operation of OMSL as it concerns the contract with the Nigerian Navy to secure the Lagos ports territory. FESTUS OKOROMADU writes on the prospect on the business of OMSL.  The clean bill of health issued by the Senate Joint Committee on Navy, Marine Transport and Finance on the investigation of alleged claims of illegal activities by Ocean Marine Solution Limited (OMSL) at the Safe Anchorage Area (SSA) of Lagos port may have come as a rude chuck to the perpetrators the horrific act aimed liquidating  company. But to lovers of truth and equity it is only an indication that the Senate can placed national interest above sentiment in tackling serious matters that affects the welfare of the ordinary Nigerians. It also shows that members of the hollowed chambers can resist attempts to be arm twisted into taking decisions that will not be beneficial to the nation’s citizens. In what can best be described as an attempt to further increase the level of unemployment in the country, as well as frustrate a noble ideal put in place to secure the nation’s maritime space especially the Lagos port, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala Usman, on the 9th October, 2019, revoked an existing agreement designed to rescue the dominance of pirates and other criminals. But as rightly pointed out by the investigative committee in its report, the establishment of a Secured Anchorage Area (SAA) operated by an indigenous firm Ocean Marine Solution Limited (OMSL) did not contravene the provisions of any national or international maritime laws ascribed or acceded to by Nigeria. The obvious question then is why do some persons saddled with the responsibility of promoting national interest bent on destroying everything that seem not to be personally beneficial to them? Where is the place of national interest above personal interest in running entities designed to serve national integrity? For those not conversant with the genesis of the SSA imbroglio, the idea is reputed to have been birthed far back in 2012, a period when insecurity was at its pick in the Nigerian waterways. In trying to proffer solution to the challenges, stakeholders including the Nigerian Navy, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the Nigerian Maritime Administration & Safety Agency (NIMASA), the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) alongside various associations of those operating in the sector came up with the SSA concept. This is well captured in the item number 7 of the Senate Joint Committee findings thus, “That relevant Government Agencies (NPA, NIMASA, DPR & Nigerian Navy) were involved in the meetings and consultation process that led to the establishment of the SAA.” By implication it was an idea generally accepted by all the stakeholders more so as it had no financial obligation to government and its agencies. Following the stakeholders approval the Nigerian Navy and OMSL sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) which entails providing a security platform for ships berthing at offshore to the Lagos Ports to utilize . Based on this understanding, OMSL was said to have made huge investment through the provision of not less than 63 vessels on sea assisting the Nigerian Navy to carry out patrol operations. The company according to the Nigeria Senate is still indebted to banks due to the investment. Unfortunately, the current management of NPA, under Hadiza seem not to have seen anything good in the initiative. To this end she wrote a letter dated 9th October, 2019 ordering the Nigerian Navy to terminate the contract it entered with OMSL accusing it of illegal activities and failure to remit money to government coffers. But as fate would have it, the Nigeria Senate was quick to intervene as it saw the emerging crisis as a matter of national interest. More so when there are allegations of defrauding a government whose anti-corruption stand is second to none. Thus, on Thursday, 7th November, 2019, a motion on what was termed, ‘the illegal security activities by Messrs OMSL Limited at the Safe Anchorage Area (SAA) of Lagos Ports,’ was moved and referred to the Joint Committee on Navy; Marine Transport & Finance for thorough investigation. The joint committee consisting of 41 Senators,  three secretariat staff and chaired by Senator George Sekibo​​ was charged with two key mandates: namely, to carry out a comprehensive investigation on the lingering infraction among the agencies with a view to resolving security impasse it will bring to the nation; and to investigate the activities of Messrs OMSL Limited and other security agencies of the Safe Anchorage Area in the Lagos ports to determine the legality of these operations, its revenue implications and report within four weeks. It was also mandated to recommend possible solutions to the infraction. The joint committee in carrying out its mandate then scheduled date for those involved to appear before it. Consequently the front liners in the discuss namely, NPA, the Nigerian Navy and OMSL were scheduled appeared before the joint committee on Tuesday, 3rd December 2019 to make their presentations. But barely 24 hours after meeting the joint committee, the NPA boss introduced a new twist to the matter when she petitioned the president of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, over what she described as the unruly behaviour of some suspected hoodlums in the premises of the National Assembly. In the three-page petition dated December 4 and titled “Petition Against Unruly Behaviour, Physical Attack and Threat in the NASS chambers by hoodlums sponsored by the chairman of OMSL,” Captain Wells Okunbo. According to her, she said she was ambushed at the exit door after attending an investigative hearing. Of course analysts were quick to point out that she was raising false alarm saying it was an attempt to draw attention and further discredit the personality of Captain Okunbo whose investment was at stake. But fortunately for Captain and the 7,540 Nigerians said to be employed directly and indirectly by OMSL, the Senate Joint Committee which submitted its findings to the Senate on Wednesday, December 18, 2019, showed it was not swayed by emotion or sentiment in arriving at decisions. The Committee did not only exonerated Captain and his company but recommend thus, “That Ocean Marine Solution Limited (OMSL) should be commended for its genuine national interests in investing over Four Hundred Million ($400,000,000) Dollars into the Security at the Secured Anchorage Area (SAA) in particular and the Nigerian waterways in general by providing the needed platforms and logistics for the Nigerian Navy to effectively perform 24/7/365 patrol operations as well as to provide the required protection for vessels waiting to berth at the Lagos ports; “That since no fraud is found in the operations of the OMSL and is operating at no cost to government, OMSL should be allowed to continue its operation at the SAA until such a time when a better and more cost effective system is put in place by the government. “That the Nigerian Navy should be properly funded to enable it procure needed vessels to clear the over one hundred and fifty (150) vessels deficit to enable them carry out their constitutional responsibilities without over depending on Private Maritime Logistics Support Companies (PMLSC).” The recommendations of the investigative committee can best be described as exhibition of national interest and patriotism and indeed a thumb up towards the drive to encourage local entrepreneurs to invest more in every aspect of the nation’s economy. 