What inspired you into broadcast journalism? Passion. I have always been passionate about making a difference. Growing up Law or Journalism were the means through which I felt I could make a difference. I settled for the Media. I have been inspired by the likes of Comfort Okoronkwo and Sienna Razak Lawal of NTA during my primary school days. This is the reason why for me, media is not just entertainment but a channel to shed light on challenges and get solutions to the people that may need it. It is all about media for development. What has been your challenges so far? It’s hard to notice a challenge when you enjoy what you do really. However, on the sales and marketing side, (yes, I do sales and marketing too, in fact I was the Group Marketing Head for Hot FM stations nation wide at some point). Meeting target can be challenging. With to increase in the number of radio stations in Abuja and nation wide the marketing share is shrinking daily. So in terms of content and sales we must be on our toes. As a presenter on the morning show resuming at 5am every week day for almost 7 years was tough too. Especially so that I had 2 babies within that period. But, over the years, I see challenges as stepping stones to a greeting heights. Any regrets? None. I don’t regret my choice of career at all. Currently working assiduously to take it to another level. What are your fondest childhood memories? Eating together with my siblings. We all ate from same bowl. Then the youngest will share the meat for the oldest to chose. I sometimes make my children do that. Who is your mentor? A have quite a number of mentors that mentor me in different areas. Senator Chris Anyanwu, Eugenia Abu, Dayo Benjamin Laniyi (DOXA digital), Lara Owoeye Wise, My godparents Mr and Mrs Godwin Arhore (role models)  Its a long list really. What does fashion and style mean to you? Comfort. I wear whatever I am comfortable in What is your advice to younger broadcasters? Give it a 150 per cent. Quit making excuses and get the job done. Your job and results will always speak for you, so role up your sleeves and work. Who/what makes you happy and sweeps you off your feet? My hubby, my family. But to answer the WHAT part, I derive joy from just making a difference in the lives of other people. There is something about giving. Especially to those who cannot pay you back. It gives an immeasurable joy and Happiness. With my Non Governmental Organization,  ONOMESE FOUNDATION, I plan to go all the way. With my family and support from friends, we plan to make a whole lot of difference in the lives of disadvantaged people in general, girls and women in particular. Tell us a little about your family? I am an Urhobo girl  from Delta State, I’m happily married with children. My family is my happy place. My hubby is the best thing that happened to my life. How do you unwind? I listen to music, watch a movie or swim. I have been doing a terrible job off all three recently. Well except the first. After all, I am a radio head. What genre of music do you listen to and why? Gospel, soft rock and R and B. Would you say its been success all the way as a media person? Largely so. There are highs and lows since the last 15 years. I count it all a success. What is your highest point and where do you hope to be in the nearest future? It’s difficult to really say what I consider my highest point. There has been quite a few, from getting the BBC Media Action bursary awards for investigative reports, to getting scholarships for training abroad with the Radio Netherlands Training centre. My highest points still comes down to getting positive reviews and feedback from people my radio programme(s) or report impacted. Once a blind farmer visited me at the office to say thank you. Through a programme I anchor Dateline Abuja. I had connected him and other farmers in Kwali to the Agric secretariat of the Federal Capital Territory Administration. He called the show complaining about lack of support from government. After the connecting them with the FCTA, they got help. They got tractors to clear their farms, fertilizers and the likes. This blind farmer came all the way from Kwali to my office in Apo to say thank you. There are several feedbacks like this one that bring smiles to my face. I know I am achieving that which I set out to achieve, touch lives.