The ‘Kaduna Solar for Health’ programme by the Kaduna State Government recently recorded another milestone  of Power, Engr Sale Mamman was in the state to witness the inauguration of a 47.5 kilowatts (kw) of solar system built to serve Doka General Hospital. ABAH ADAH writes. Access to electricity in Nigeria has remained a tenacious challenge over the years. With a population expected to hit 200 million in a few years’ time, only about 50 per cent of the population, mostly residents of the townships, are said to have access to electricity supply, and in most cases not quality one, from the national grid. According to a report, over 80 per cent of Nigerian business owners cite power challenge as the most significant obstacle to doing business, as they experience an average monthly power outage put at 239 hours. Nigeria’s Power Sector Recovery Programme (PSRP) estimates that the erratic supply of power results in an annual economic loss in excess of $25 billion. Recurrent unscheduled blackouts have pushed the population and businesses to invest in self-generation. It is estimated that only about 50 per cent of the electricity generated comes from the grid, while the other half is generated from individual power sources, generally small petrol/diesel generators. In 2009, the total capacity of individual power sources from petrol and diesel generators was conservatively estimated at 6000 MW. As of 2006, the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos and the South-South and South East, particularly the Niger Delta states (Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers), which are abundantly endowed with oil and gas, were the ones with the highest concentration of generators. The situation is a far cry from projections on electricity demand trajectory in Nigeria by stakeholders in the past. For instance, as a result of high economic growth and demographic pressure, in 2008, the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) together with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) projected a demand of 15,730 MW for 2010 and 119,200 MW for 2030 under the reference scenario (7 per cent yearly economic growth). As at today, Nigeria’s annual GDP and growth rate remains in the region of 2 per cent while average power supply is within an average of 3, 500 mega watts (MW), LEADERSHIP has learnt. In order to bring a solution to the problem, the federal government, in its Power Sector Reform Roadmap (2013), set the ambitious targets to upgrade the hydro and thermal power systems and key into renewable power alternatives to increase capacity by the year 2020. The targets also aim at diversifying Nigeria’s energy mix to reduce its dependence on natural gas. This led to the deployment of alternative power solutions such as mini-grids which are believed to be a cost-effective and practical solution when compared to grid expansion, being facilitated by the federal and state governments, in a timely manner. Given the critical role of electricity in the development of Nigeria, the federal government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan 2017 – 2020 (“ERGP”) prioritised enhancing the existing installed capacity available for power generation by encouraging small-scale renewable energy projects and building more power generation capacity to increase electricity access throughout the country. The Nigeria Electrification Project (NEP), a federal government initiative that is private sector driven and seeks to provide electricity access to households, micro, small and medium enterprises in off grid communities across the country through renewable power sources, being handled by Nigeria’s Rural Electrification Agency (REA), is one of such projects. On the 24th May, 2017, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) released a Mini-grid Regulation to govern the development of integrated electricity generation and distribution supply systems of under 1MW either in isolation from the Distribution Companies (Discos) or interconnected to the Discos’ existing network infrastructure, thus enabling willing and capable individuals, corporate organisations, and states to build and manage a mini-grid to complement the conventional grid supply, thus increasing access to electricity. A mini-grid is an integrated local generation and distribution system with installed capacity below 1MW, capable of serving numerous end‐users independent of the national grid. It may be ‘isolated’ with no link to any other network or ‘interconnected’ with the main grid such that energy exchange is possible between. In May 2019, the REA launched the mini-grid and solar home components of NEP. The mini grid component aims to extend electricity services to 300,000 households and 30,000 enterprises in rural areas by 2023. In its quest to make good its promises of better healthcare service delivery to the people of the state in 2015, Kaduna State government came up with a primary healthcare centre infrastructure development programme and decided on a power project back then which it tagged “Kaduna Solar for Health” to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to Primary and Maternal Clinics across the various local government areas in the state with a view to addressing the alarming mortality rate usually associated with the on-and-off supply from the grid. Keying into the opportunities provided, the state, in partnership with the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), European Union (EU) and some local development partners, installed the first Kaduna Solar for Health systems in 2017. The latest of the projects was the 47.5 kilowatts (KW) solar energy system inaugurated by the state Governor, Nasir El-Rufai and witnessed by the minister of Power, Engr Sale Mamman on behalf of the federal government at Doka Rural Hospital, Kachia LGA of Kaduna State on Thursday, 28th November, 2019, signalling the launch of the phase II of the Kaduna Solar for Health project. Delivering the keynote address, the minister noted, “This project is particularly unique because it was conceived under a Technical Assistance Programme-through the Nigerian Solar Programme, which is a bilateral cooperation that is funded by EU and DFID. “In addition, the projects were also implemented under a framework which provides sustainable, reliable and affordable energy supply consistent with our commitment to achieve UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 7. “Our being here today reflects a deliberate demonstration of the importance both the state and the federal government attach to provision of electricity in remote and underserved rural communities all over Nigeria with power generated and distributed locally using local resources such as the solar.” Engr Mamman also disclosed that Nigeria’s power generation capacity was over 7, 500 kilowatts (KW) as transmission increased to 7, 000kw. According to him, the improvement recorded was a function of the enabling policies of the federal government which are being implemented such as the Rural Electrification Strategy and Implementation Plan;  Mini-grid Regulations;  Sustainable Energy for All (SEforAll) among others. He said distribution remained the weak link within the system and was already receiving the desired attention at optimising its operations for all to benefit. Commending the Kaduna State government for the partnership that led to the Doka project being inaugurated, and the development partners, the minister called on the community to protect the investment and support the hospital management. In his speech, Governor El-Rufai, who was represented by the deputy governor, Dr Hadiza Balarabe, said the state is committed to preserving and boosting public trust through protection of the investments across the state, adding that in the face of poor and erratic supply from the national grid which had resulted in high rate of maternal and child mortality, Kaduna state government will continue to pursue its goal of providing sustainable power and other facilities for primary health centres across the state for improved services. Governor El-rufai implored the development partners not to turn their back against the projects even after the inauguration, saying “We hope we can again count on our development partners to provide technical assistance and work with the Kaduna Power Supply Company (KAPSCO), the frontline coordinator of the Solar for Health programme in the state, to develop a robust and implementable operations and maintenance plan that would see to the continuous success of the project. In her introductory remark in the “Kaduna Solar for Health” handbook shared at the event, Balarabe said “With the additional grant of 10 million Euros from the European Union Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS and the state government’s commitment of $8 million, Kaduna Solar for Health will be extended to all state-owned rural and isolated general hospitals as well as an additional 221 primary health centres (PHCs) across the state, bringing the total solar capacity to 3.69MW.” In the preface he wrote for the book, the head, Delegation of the EU to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Amb Ketil Karlsen commended the determination of Kaduna State government to achieve universal basic healthcare using clean renewable energy. “This is a welcome line of action, which resonates with the EU’s efforts to promote increased adoption of renewables in Nigeria’s energy mix agenda,” he remarked.