The Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has congratulated the Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Prof Elias Suleiman Bogoro on the Public Service Person of the Year 2019 award conferred on him by LEADERSHIP Group Limitedd, saying it is a well-deserved honour. In a statement by its Director of Communication and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the PSC described the award conferred on Bogoro by the media organisation as a testimony to the arduous work Bogoro is doing at TEtFund in promoting transparency and accountability in the conduct of public affairs in Nigeria. Stating that the award was a well-deserved one, the PSC noted that focus has been the secret of numerous achievements recorded by Bogoro since taking over at TETfund and that he has justified the confidence reposed on him by turning around the story of Nigeria’s public tertiary institution within the shortest time. Ibrahim said, “The award conferred on Prof Suleiman Elias Bogoro’s explains his re-appointment on the April 21, 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari. The president knew that he was all that is needed to revamp the ailing fortune of education sector in Nigeria, which has been on the downward trend in the last few decades. “The President’s decision to recall him was definitely informed by the confidence he has in the capacity and track records of the erudite scholar to rescue the nation’s education system. So far, with his humble, calm and calculative mien, Prof Bogoro has continued to prove his critics wrong. Times and tides have tested and proven his character, as investigations into the phantom and spurious allegation against him crumbled like pack of cards.
“It is incontrovertible that Bogoro has been highly rated as demonstrated by the LEADERSHIP award having keyed into President Buhari’s fight against corruption ahead of others and has won accolades as one of the incorruptible officers in recent times. “TEfund today is celebrating the impact and improved ranking of Nigerian higher institutions internationally because of his intensive interventionist approach in the nation’s tertiary institutions”. PSC further noted that since Bogo’s reappointment, TETFund has been refocused in pursuit of one of its core responsibility of rehabilitating decaying infrastructure and the construction of new ones that are relevant to the development of learning in the nation’s public tertiary institutions. Ibrahim continued: “One of his major areas of concentration is programme that seeks to advance the nation’s tertiary institutions is conduct of research, innovation and development activities. During his first stint, Prof Bogoro floated the Department of Research and Development (R&D) at the TETFUND headquarters with the duty of stimulating, supervising and coordinating research and development activities in the public tertiary institutions. “Cumulatively, in his first and second coming, Bogoro’s contribution to lifting the standard of education is unparalleled. For us at the PSC, this award by the LEADERSHIP Group is both a source of personal joy, as it is an affirmation of the work of TETFunf, which Prof Bogoro is leading, as well as an inspiration to continue in his footsteps, assured that whatever sacrifices we make today will not be in vain.”