Ekiti State Government on Friday revealed that plans are afoot to build the scene of the first plane crash in Africa into a tourist’s site to improve tourism potential in the state. Governor Kayode Fayemi who made the disclosure said the move would not only help in shaping history, but would expand the revenue base of the state. The relics of the 2nd World War German  plane which was conveying ammunition’s crashed at exactly 8:00pm on April 2nd,1947 at Okelapa, Ikogosi Ekiti , killing all the people on board. Fayemi, who was represented by the Director General of the Council for Arts and Culture, Mr. Wale Ojo- Lanre spoke in Ikogosi Ekiti on Friday after inspecting the relics of the crashed aeroplane. Ojo-Lanre informed that the Governor Kayode Fayemi was committed to identifying the various tourist and cultural sites in the state with a view to adding value to them. He said government was desirous of  turning  the sites  to sources of empowerment, saying that the upgrading of the Council  to a full-fledged Ministry of Tourism , Arts and   Culture was a development that has created an enabling environment crucial to achieving the cultural – tourism vision of Fayemi’s government . Inspecting the relics of the aircraft, Fayemi pointed out that, “necessary steps would be put in place to ensure that the site is giving a face-lift to attract tourists saying all the tourist and cultural sites in Ekiti would be upgraded to acceptable global standard and showcase to the world. “I appreciate the government for developing the Ikogosi Warm Spring Resort site to an acceptable global standard as demonstrated by facilities being provided at the site”. The Onikogosi of Ikogosi, Oba Elijah Olorunisola, pledged the readiness and cooperation of the town at ensuring that the site is given a face-lift in order to attract tourists from far and near which according to him would have a multiplier effect on the revenue base of the people and the government. Oba Olorunisola lamented the attitude of the immediate past administration towards the tourist site which he said did not only suffer neglect during that period but was vandalized. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry ,Alhaji Ganiyu Titilope, said the Fayemi led government has given the Ministry the necessary impetus to deliver on his mandate to make Ekiti the hub of tourism, arts and culture in the country. 