Katsina state governor, Aminu Masari in this interview gave reasons why the amnesty programme
for bandits and cattle rustlers did not work in his first term. The Governor also spoke on some
other issues. JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH was there for LEADERSHIP We congratulate you on your recent victory at the appeal court. You presented a budget of two hundred and forty-nine billion for 2020 fiscal year, and promised to make the state attain economic growth. How do you intend to achieve this? Well, first of all, if you look at the break down of the budget, you’ll see that only 30 per cent of the budget is going for the current expenditure, about 69.7 per cent is going for capital investment if you are investing in capital, it means you are creating opportunities and all opportunities need some form of business activity. We are also developing hectares of land and we have started developing it by providing infrastructure for investors to key into in the area of agriculture and also we have…..from the ministry of agriculture to do commercial agriculture and going into this, we are working with the central bank on the areas we have comparative advantage. There was a time Katsina was producing 60 per cent of cotton in Nigeria. So, we are working to reinvent that, and this has to do with going back to history to bring back our cotton production. The anchor borrower cotton programme was launched here. If we develop agriculture, we are repositioning the economy of the state. We also look forward to investment in production of qualitative grass and luckily enough we have indigenes who are doing a lot in these areas, rice processing and fertilizer. We are doing so many things in order to encourage others to invest in commercial agriculture. When you talk of agriculture, I remember you mentioned youth empowerment was one of your major objectives. Will you say that youth restiveness has drastically been reduced in the state? How were you able to achieve this? We upgraded the craft village and expanded our intake, we identified every trade within three to six months, and gave startups. Through this we produced thousands of skilled mobile…also we worked with the DFID programme to rehabilitate about eight vocational training centers across the state. We were in a discussion with them last week and so far, they have produced over four thousand and we have what is called business promotion centers and about one hundred and five participants. So rarely, all this is to capture which we will soon start and we have more than one thousand to train, this is to keep them off the streets and reduce their activities to the barest minimum. Our major challenge is those who do not have any form of education. It is our responsibility even though it takes a lot of work to rehabilitate them into skilled employment. We also ensure tricyclist and motorcyclist operators are organised and supported with a means of trade, thereby keeping them off the streets. We also have special programmes for young women, some of whom are married. We are giving them the capital and necessary skill they need to startup a trade. We believe that when a woman is financially empowered her children will be able to attend school and she will be able to manage her home better. When talking about agriculture and the economy come 2020, statistically do you have the number of lives you aspire to transform? This programme of getting over one hundred million people out of poverty was cascaded down the state and we are doing our part in ensuring protection on how much we intend to spend on each person. For example, if we trained over ten thousand the previous year, we expect to double the number this year. We have similar programme under the ministry of women affairs, youths and so many ministries and departments, in order to enhance the training, we upgraded the ministry of science and technology because we are trying to catch as many people as we can and along side this we are also working with the local…. to deal with issues and we have a special programme on that.  When you talk about out of school children, the almajiri’s, what has been your focus on education, how are you also going to consolidate on the success of the coming year? The most important thing is that we are working towards seeing how we can upgrade the dichotomy in the school system because some of these children rarely attend informal Quranic schools. UBEC and the federal government will join us to normalise issues in this regard so that those in Quranic and Islamiyya schools have some elements of western education, craftmanship, so that at the end of their training they would have learnt something and one day join the mainstream education system. So definitely, we have to think out of the box, come up with programmes that will see to it because up till now, in some rural areas in communities, there is a bit of fear and perception which is as a result of collapse of basic and quality education. Some parents would say they enrolled their child in school but he or she has not learnt anything. We are working in such a way that at the end of junior or senior secondary education most of these children will be able to put to use what they learnt. We are on a complete cycle of looking into the problem and how we go about proffering solutions, this is possible and it can be achieved though it requires a lot of determination. Some issues about education should be off partisan politics, as Nigerians we are to come out in numbers to support growth in the education sector so that we will be able to put our people at work because only education can help you to act in such a manner. Last two years you were in Batagarawa and we saw a master edifice of the science and technical school transformation. In 2020 do you have additional plans in the area of education? If you look at our capital budget, our priority is to spend 20 per cent on education. This means the work we started on education in terms of renovation, upgrading and provision of equipment to schools is what we intend to continue and this programme will continue in Katsina State in the next twenty years if the State is in the right place to compete, not only in Nigeria but internationally. We are talking about public education and 30 per cent of the population are privileged as they depend on public institutions. Sir, you recently called on state governors to disarm repentant bandits. What informed your decision, and would you say the amnesty programme is effective? For us, we can say the peace we negotiated with the bandits is working and since we started this, we have not heard unnecessary attack that we used to have, communities are no longer being invaded, killing and raping have stopped. We have not attained total victory because criminal elements among them are still perpetrating these acts, so we are still battling with it and are calling on them to put an end to this because we will not hesitate to deal with any offender. We have the capacity to deal with the situation but do not want a blanket approach in order to address the issues that affects us as a people. Surrendering of arms is in phases, we are working on peace and hopefully we will succeed in bringing total calm to the state. Some we were told are holding on to these weapons to protect themselves while the bandits are holding it to attack but if there is normalcy, every weapon in the hands of herders will be brought back when they are confident there won’t be an attack against them. But of course, bandits have to be disarmed by force and we have started receiving some of these weapons from repentant herders and bandits. It is a continuous process on both sides as we are looking at restoring normalcy which makes any arms and ammunition useless. You tried this method during your first tenure but the bandits returned. How will you ensure it does not happen again? In 2017 and 2018 it was simply because there was no similar programme in Zamfara, Kaduna and in the totality of the forest area in Katsina. So, the bandits, herders in terms of population are more in Zamfara, Kaduna and when we are experiencing peace here they don’t have peace. Most of the leaders we had peace talks with were eventually killed by bandits from Zamfara in particular, and it is safe to say Zamfara is where most bandits live, and in Kaduna because of the forest areas. But now Zamfara is running same amnesty programme alongside Sokoto and even in Kaduna to some extent and this will be successful as long as we engage our neighbours in the peace negotiation with bandits but if that is neglected then, we will back to the start. The peace we have will last for a much longer period with the participation from various states. It is obvious how Bello Masari was able to silence the opposition party in the state. But sometime ago it was published on newspaper that you are among governors behind the success of president Muhammadu Buhari. Why are you secretive about this? Governance is like politics. Some are on the table and others under the table. There is politics of campaign normally in the daytime but then, we have politics of meeting people, talking to them and making them understand. That’s why most of the people come out in mass. Besides, I am not the only one talking to people behind closed doors, most politicians do same and it is not out of place. The president is from Katsina State, so we have greater responsibility to ensure the world knows that not only the All Progressives Congress or the PDP but also Katsina State are solidly behind the president. Aminu Bello Masari was one-time number four citizen in the country and now a two-time governor. After this, what will be your next political ambition? I will retire. By the time I leave office I will be 73 years old and at that age I will need to rest. What about politics? I will continue in the backgrou