As commercial banks in the country struggle to meet the Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) limit given by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), there are ongoing plans to further increase the minimum rate to 70 per cent from the current 65 per cent before the end of next year. This was made known by the CBN deputy director, Financial Policy and Regulation Department, Hassan Mamoud at three day seminar on “Nigerian Banking System Stability: Tackling Emerging Issues” organised by the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) for business editors and finance correspondents. “…since we started we have not done 60 – 65 per cent but we are thinking of doing 70 per cent by ending of next year. And within that May (when the measure was introduced) to this period we have done it, total credit had increased 1.1 trillion,” Mr Mahmoud stated. The deputy director also disclosed that the total industry assets currently stands at about N40 trillion; about four times the size of the Federal Government’s 2019 budget of N10.6 trillion. The CBN had in July this year directed that all deposit money banks maintain a minimum loan to deposit ratio of 60 per cent by September 2019 or face sanctions. It later increased it by October to the 65 per cent as its initial step had increased lending by banks to N16.39 trillion as at September 2019 from N15.56 trillion in May. Increasing the minimum LDR for the industry was part of measures to increase banking sector lending to the real sector to spur growth in the economy. In his presentation, Mr Mahmoud recalled that the Non- Performing Loans of the banking industry has reduced to 6.6 per cent, “because we have NPR 17, 18 and we struggled with 13 per cent over two years, now we are doing 6.6 per cent,” he said. Highlighting some of the steps the bank had taken to regulate the sector, the Deputy Director said “We also did the Global Standing Instruction, GSI. What we did in this system and which work for stability of financial system as well as banking system, is the fact so long as you have a deposit in any particular bank, and you went to borrow in another bank, the new GSI is that, so long as it default here, wherever you have money in any Nigeria bank, that bank will take it straight. Because the time you are signing the loan form, you are signing the GSI form. So that’s one of the measures we provide.”