The volume of non-oil exports in the country increased by 374% in the third quarter of this year, according to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). JONATHAN EZE in this report, highlights the fundamental roles of the Nigeria Export Promotion Council in achieving this great feat Segun Awolowo, the chief executive officer of the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) is an insightful public servant going by the foresight he has exhibited so far in the discharge of his duties. He has been the principal driver of the Zero Oil Plan as an economic blueprint for Nigeria. His engagement with the private sector, relevant government institutions and international development partners and businesses have yielded positive results which President Muhammadu Buhari is sure proud of going by the recent disclosure by the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics indicating a positive trade balance as non-oil exports rise by 374 per cent in Q3. Zero Oil is a part of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), a medium-term plan developed by the Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning. The Zero Oil plan is to increase the country’s export by increasing production of homemade goods, moving from the export of raw materials to value-added products so as to increase the foreign exchange revenue, to promote the value of Nigerian made products and services abroad and to create jobs. The product of his hard work is the appreciation value of non-oil export which rose from N222.6 billion in the second quarter to N1.08 trillion in the third quarter. According to the report, which was released recently, imports into the country declined by 2.7 per cent from N4.01 trillion in the second quarter to N3.89 trillion in the third quarter. Conversely, the country’s exports recorded an increase of 15.02 per cent from N4.59 trillion to N5.28 trillion in the third quarter. From a total trade volume of N9.18 trillion, the country recorded a positive trade balance of N1.38 trillion in the quarter. A breakdown of the data showed that the value of agricultural exports increased by 42.69 per cent with agricultural imports declining by 4.64 per cent. The value of manufactured goods exports increased by 839.44 per cent. “The notable increase recorded was due to the exports of high-value cable sheaths of iron, as well as submersible drilling platform, vessels and other floating structures,” the report read. “The value of crude oil exports in the third quarter of 2019 was 4.79 percent lower than in second-quarter 2019 and 9.62 percent lower than the third quarter of 2018.” According to the NBS, an increase in the import of wood charcoal, electrical energy and charcoal of bamboo which pushed the value of energy goods imports by 243.92 per cent????? In the third quarter, crude oil export accounted for N3.74 trillion or 70.84 per cent of total exports. Awolowo, had at different fora insisted that Nigeria can earn $30 billion and create 500,000 export-oriented jobs through different products from the non-oil sector. He said the country could generate huge revenue from cocoa, cotton, cement, leather, cashew, sesame, shea butter, palm oil, fertiliser, petrochemicals and rubber. “What we hope to achieve is to raise more revenue for Nigeria from other sources,” he said. “You know 90 percent of our revenue is from oil and we cannot survive with that. Even though oil prices are rising a bit because of Iran, there is problem there. But we should not rest on our laurels because, those days of $140 per barrel is gone forever. So we have to look inwards and produce more. “The zero oil plan is about raising production and productivity, we identified 22 sectors where we can earn foreign exchange apart from oil. We are hoping that in the next 10 to 15 years, we will be able to raise $150 billion from sources outside oil. “That is what we are working on and we are galvanizing the whole states behind us in other to raise production and productivity. We are working with the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to achieve this. You know the Central Bank of Nigeria CBN just announced an initiative on five of our products and giving them low-interest rates to farm and raise production.” He also spoke about the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which President Muhammadu Buhari signed at the 12th extraordinary session of the General assembly of the African Union on AfCFTA in Niamey, Niger Republic. Nigeria is the 53rd state on the continent to append its signature to the document. “The African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement is the biggest in the world. We didn’t want to be a dumping ground, that was why Mr President refused to sign the agreement. We must be competitive, we must produce more, and we must help our manufacturers get into this market,” he said. Awolowo said he presented to Buhari, some tomatoes and “Bell peppers” from Benin, and Casanovas, cassava chips from a cottage industry in Idu Industrial Estate, Abuja. The chips are being exported to Germany. He said he briefed the president on the zero oil implementation plan. According to him, “Cocoa is an immediate win for us because it has been our number one non-oil revenue earner. But we are on less than 300,000 metric tons, Ghana is heading to 900,000, Cote d’ Ivoire almost two million metric.” “So, how do we compete? Meanwhile, if you see the landmass of Nigeria you can imagine what we can do. Another sector is Shea nut, cashew is another potential cash cow for us, so let’s raise production, let’s give our farmers, plantations low-interest loan so that they can raise production for us. “We are also looking at value addition for all because that is the way you create jobs, we cannot continue to sell the raw materials.” To achieve all of these, NEPC has been organising workshops for farmers and merchants. Mr Samuel Oyeyipo, Regional coordinator (NEPC) South West Region, speaking at a sensitisation workshop on zero tolerance chemical residue in dried beans for export, said the programme was aimed at creating an interface between stakeholders/practicing farmers and merchants who are the target group as well as extension officers. It also involved a training workshop for farmers on Good Agronomical Practices (GAP) and Good Warehousing Practice (GWP). Highlights of the workshop included the presentation of free zero Fly storage bags to farmers by the council. This is a storage bag with a single hermetic liner for protecting grains in a bid to promote zero reject and increase export of beans and other grains. The zero fly bags were distributed freely to farmers, warehouse merchants and exporters at the two venues to enable them to test its efficacy and thereby adopt its usage which does not need any form of chemical for beans preservation. However, to sustain this tremendous success in NEPC, the agency needs adequate funding to enable it embark on more research and development which is crucial to success in the global export market, to identify marketing opportunities and constraints within foreign markets and to pick out potential buyers and customers. Finding the largest, quickest growing markets with the ideal conditions for a certain type of business can be the difference between success and failure in the export market. Primary market research is possible and has the advantage of being tailored directly toward the needs of the company in question, but is also expensive and time-consuming. As a result, most countries choose to collect data from second-hand sources, for example, trade statistics for a certain country or product.