The political atmosphere in Kwara State is charged following  the All Progressives Congress(APC) dominated state House of Assembly’s decision to deny winner of the Ilorin South constituency seat, Hon. Jimoh AbdulRaheem Agboola of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) entry into the assembly complex, Abdullahi Olesin reports When news of the verdict of the Court of Appeal over the Ilorin South constituency’s Kwara State House of Assembly seat broke out on November 12, 2019, little did the beneficiaries of the landmark judgment- Hon. Jimoh AbdulRaheem  Agboola and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) knew that the implementation of the judgment would be delayed and dogged by needless controversy. The Court of Appeal sitting in Ilorin had nullified the election of Hassan Azeez Oluwanilo of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and declared Agboola of the PDP winner of the election. The appellate court ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC)  to issue a fresh certificate of return to the PDP candidate. Agboola’s victory has altered the status of the 34- member state Assembly as a one- party legislature. Though, as a democrat and firm believer in the rule of law and due process, the state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq did not waste any time in congratulating Agboola of the PDP who was declared as the winner of the house of assembly election. AbdulRazaq, had in a statement by his spokesman, Rafiu Ajakaye same day the judgment was delivered, congratulated  Agboola over the appeal court judgment that ordered his swearing in for the legislative seat. “What has happened today (November 12,2019) is one of the beauties of democracy. As respecters of the rule of law and decorum, we submit to the position of their Lordships and congratulate our brother from the opposition party. “Lessons have been learnt on all sides. The development will no doubt enrich our democracy and constitutional development as a country. On behalf of the Kwara State Government and leaders of our party, the All Progressives Congress, we call on Hon. Jimoh AbdulRaheem Agboola to join us in the patriotic duty to rebuild Kwara State that all of us can be proud of. We urge him to see issues beyond partisan lens,” the governor had stated. The elated state’s chapter of the PDP which suffered total defeat in the 2019 general election in the state, had rolled out the drums to  celebrate the victory of its candidate for Ilorin South constituency during the elections. In a statement issued by the Kwara PDP chairman, Hon. Kola Shittu, the party described the court’s ruling as a victory for democracy and the rule of law. It commended Agboola for his resilience and ruggedness in the pursuit of justice and also hailed the Appeal Court justices for setting ensuring that justice was duly served in the matter. It commended the new lawmaker for his belief in the party’s leadership, despite the prevailing circumstances. It also congratulated its members and supporters in Ilorin South on the appeal court’s verdict and urged them to continue to work for the success of the party. It assured the good people of Ilorin South constituency of quality and impactful representation at the state assembly by Agboola. But, many weeks after the appellate court’s judgment, Agboola and the PDP are yet to enjoy the benefit of the judicial intervention. The first hurdle experienced by Agboola was the unusual delay in issuing him a certificate of return by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). However, after much noise by concerned PDP members on both the conventional and social media, the INEC on December 5,3019 issued the certificate of return to Agboola. Prior to this time, the leadership of the state house of assembly had denied the PDP lawmaker entry into its chamber, citing non issuance of certificate of return to Agboola by INEC as excuse. A new twist was however introduced into the whole saga on Tuesday this week, when Agboola armed with his INEC issued certificate of return stormed the House of Assembly and was still denied entry by the leadership of the legislative arm of government. The latest action of the state legislature which many considered as a brazen disregard for the rule of law, however did not go unchallenged. Members of the PDP in the state stormed the state House of Assembly to protest the alleged refusal of leadership of the House to allow Agboola entry into the assembly. Speaking with newsmen at the Assembly complex, Agboola said that the House had denied him entry since he got certificate of return from the INEC, last Thursday. “As we all know, Appeal court is the last destination for the House of Assembly election petition process. Its ruling has declared me winner. I started from the tribunal. I have my certificate of return from the INEC national headquarters, Abuja. The INEC in Kwara did the official presentation. According to the process, I have to come to the House in person to do documentation with the clerk of the House in order to ratify, verify, genuineness of the certificate. “This is our third time of coming here. Since last Thursday that the certificate was issued, then Friday and today, they did not attend to us. The speaker, the clerk and all of them have made themselves not to be available. We’ve been patient, telling our supporters not to be violent. This is the House we built. I served here between 1999 and 2003. “We got here by 8:00 am today, but the security personnel said that the Speaker would address when he comes. We said there’s no need for any address but entry into the House” he said. Also speaking with journalists, chairman, House committee on Information Culture and Tourism, Awolola Ayokunle, said that the House was served “a court summon joining the speaker and the clerk to the House, in a motion on notice with No. FHC/IL/CS/157/2019, filed in the Federal High Court of Nigeria, in the Ilorin judicial division, holden at Ilorin by Hon. Hassan Abdulazeez Elewu, restraining the House from swearing in of the PDP candidate pending determination of the case. “As the first arm of government charged with the responsibility of lawmaking, the House cannot but abide by the law. However, the House is restrained from taking further steps in respect of the certificate of return issued to the PDP candidate for the Ilorin South constituency seat until the determinaion of the above said suit scheduled to be moved on December 16, 2019”. He assured members of general public that the House was ready to abide by the rule of law at all times. The state chairman of the PDP, Hon.  Shittu who decried what he called undemocratic stance of the leadership of the house of assembly, said his party would explore every legal means possible to ensure that justice is served on the matter. He noted that the appellate court has final adjudication on house of assembly election matters and wondered why the leadership of the house was foot dragging in implementing a clear court order.