The apex socio-cultural organisations in the northern and southern regions of the country yesterday threw their weight behind the court judgment which ordered the recovery of pensions from former governors currently serving as ministers or National Assembly members. The main northern organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) while expressing support for the judgement, urged the attorney general of the federation and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) to challenge laws enacted by State Houses of Assembly that are not consistent with the letter and spirit of the Nigerian Constitution. On its part, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohaneze Ndigbo advocated jail terms for former governors who refuse to comply with the court order on the recovery of the contentious pension. In same manner, the pan Yoruba organisation, Afenifere described the pension collected by the former governors as a ripoff of the people, stressing that pensioners who served the country for 35years are dying without being paid their pension. In a landmark judgement, the Federal High Court in Lagos, last week, ordered the federal government to “recover pensions collected by former governors now serving as ministers and members of the National Assembly, and directed the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Mr Abubakar Malami, SAN to challenge the legality of states’ pension laws permitting former governors and other ex-public officials to collect such pensions.” The judgment by Justice Oluremi Oguntoyinbo followed an application for an order of mandamus in suit number FHC/L/CS/1497/2017 filed by the SocioEconomic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP). Reacting to the judgement, secretary general of ACF, Anthony Sani, described the double payment to former governors who are now in government as morally preposterous. He added that ex-governors who served for four years or the maximum eight years should not be entitled to pension. Speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP Sunday, Sani said, ”I am not the publicity secretary of ACF, thus I am not the spokesman for ACF. More so, there has been no meeting of any of ACF organs since the judgement was delivered by the court. “But because ACF has talked about jumbo pay to our public officers, I can say ACF has never been disposed to the idea of not only double payments for ex governors and deputy governors who are now senators or ministers or members of House of Representatives and collecting double remuneration of salaries and pensions that are equivalent to what sitting governors enjoy; it is also opposed to the idea of paying state ex-governors any form of remuneration outside what is provided by the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC),” he said. The ACF scribed continued, “This double payment to ex-governors who are now in government is morally preposterous CHOOSE YOUR TIMES WISELY It can be tempting, when we are winding down after a busy day, to want to discuss everything with our partner in bed, or perhaps with friends via an online chat or the phone. Discussing your worries is a great idea, but it is best done earlier in the evening. Choosing to start a serious conversation about a topic of concern, such as health or finance, shortly before your planned time to go to sleep, will keep the subject fresh in your mind and may interfere with your ability to fall asleep and enjoy restful sleep. Instead, make a mental note to talk about it the next day, when you are feeling awake and refreshed. – Culled from “50 Tips To Help You Sleep Well” because a governor who served for four years or maximum of eight years should not be entitled to pension let alone any remuneration and perquisites that are same with what sitting governors enjoy. What is more, the ex-governors are often entitled to houses in places of their choice. Some of these houses cost up to a billion naira. “And so when the court passed the judgement against such practices, it gladdened our hearts precisely because, apart from doing away with the injustice, the stoppage of double payment will reduce cost of governance and the inequality in the society. “We also share the order of the court to the minister of Justice and attorney general of the federation to the effect that he should challenge such laws that are enacted by the state Houses of Assembly that are not consistent with the letter and spirit of the constitution,” he said. Sani further recalled that the former minister of Defence, Gen Theophilus Danjuma upbraided Houses of Assembly for conniving with state governors to award jumbo pension and perquisites to governors when they leave office. “He (Gen Danjuma) called such practice as legal corruption. But nobody cared to listen to the revered statesman. So, while I support the outright stoppage of pension to ex-governors who are in government in other capacities and enjoying salaries of those offices, I am not sure whether it would be right to ask them to refund all they have collected as pension, considering that they collected the pension under state laws that were operational,” he noted. Similarly, the national publicity secretary of ACF, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, said the apex northern organisation “abhors illegality in whatever form, and will therefore subscribe to any court action that will bring sanity into our political system.” He added, “The pension and other allowances being paid to former political office holders who are now drawing salaries and allowances in their new political issue of ex governor’s pensions last week, I have been inundated with calls from concerned family members, friends and well-wishers. ”My name has appeared in many media platforms as a beneficiary of the bogus and controversial pension package. “I want to make it abundantly clear that I have not been paid one kobo from such a pension scheme since I left the Governor’s office and won elections to become a Senator from 2007 – 2019. I have also not received the pay since I became a Minister in 2019. “The plain truth is that the Benue State House of Assembly never enacted a law granting such pay to ex-governors and other public officers. There is therefore no basis in law for such payments to be made to me and they have never been made,” the statement concluded. Besides Akume, minister of Transportation and former governor of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi, also said he has never received pension since he left office as governor in 2015. offices is, in our opinion, morally wrong and inconsistent with current economic realities,” he told LEADERSHIP Sunday. Ohaneze Ndigbo, however backed the refund of the contentious pension by the former governors. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the assistant national publicity secretary of Igbo socio-cultural group, Comrade Chuks Ibegbu, said ”Yes they should refund it. They have no right to pensions.” Asked about what should be done if the former governors involved fail to comply, he replied, “they should be jailed.” Afenifere, the pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, lambasted former governors currently serving as ministers and members of the National Assembly who collect pension from their states, saying its amounts to fraud and extreme criminality. Spokesman of the association Mr. Yinka Odumakin told LEADERSHIP Sunday that it is highly criminal for any of the governor to continue to rip-off the people. He stressed that it is an act of corruption, noting that such money should be recovered from them. He said, ‘’Many of them spent either four or eight years in office. After mismanaging funds, stealing, making money illegally, they then move to the National Assembly, become ministers and continue to collect pensions. They have continued to take advantage of the people, ripping them off. That is corruption. Whereas, pensioners who have served the country for 35years, are dying without being paid their pension.’’ Meanwhile, minister of special duties and intergovernmental affairs, Senator George Akume has denied ever being paid pension since he left office as former governor of Benue State in 2007. Akume who subsequently served as Senate Minority leader, said in a statement yesterday that the Benue State House of Assembly never enacted a law granting such pay to ex-governors and other public officers. The statement read “Since the landmark judgment by Justice Oluremi Oguntoyibo of the Federal High Court in Lagos on the issue of ex governor’s pensions last week, I have been inundated with calls from concerned family members, friends and well-wishers. ”My name has appeared in many media platforms as a beneficiary of the bogus and controversial pension package. “I want to make it abundantly clear that I have not been paid one kobo from such a pension scheme since I left the Governor’s office and won elections to become a Senator from 2007 – 2019. I have also not received the pay since I became a Minister in 2019 . “The plain truth is that the Benue State House of Assembly never enacted a law granting such pay to ex-governors and other public officers. There is therefore no basis in law for such payments to be made to me and they have never been made,” the statement concluded. Besides Akume, minister of Transportation and former governor of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi, also said he has never received pension since he left office as governor in 2015.