Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has called on the public and private sectors to increase employment quotas of qualified physically challenged Nigerians to fill various positions in different organisations. Sanwo-Olu stated this on Monday at the graduation ceremony of Bethesda Home for the Blind and the grand finale of activities to mark year 2019 International Day of persons with disability. He said it was time Nigerian leaders are reminded that there is ability in disability. Sanwo-Olu said no one should see disability as liability rather, “we should encourage those with one form of impairment or another to realise their full potential in life”. He added that Lagos State Government would continue to collaborate with the private sector to uplift the living standard of the physically challenged citizens. He said: “we must encourage these students to attain their full potential by ensuring that they get jobs after their studies. We must do more for them both in our individual capacity and as government. On our part, we will partner the private sector to promote employment inclusion of the visually impaired in our society. It is by doing this, that we will increase the economic base of the physically challenged as well as rid our society of miscreants in our streets.” The Governor said Lagos State has promulgated a Law that discourages public and private sectors from discriminating against physically challenged people in their various organizations, noting that when more of physically challenged persons secure gainful employment, the society will be better for it. The Governor, after listening to a passionate speech by Mr. Ajayi Adesola Adedokun, a visually impaired lawyer, who spoke on the plight of qualified but physically challenged people while seeking employment, announced an offer of automatic employment for him. He also called for the Curriculum vitae of twenty-one others present at the event for possible job placement offer.
Adedokun had lamented the inhuman treatment they are daily subjected to while seeking employment even though they are adequately qualified for advertised positions by employers. 