Perfetti Van Melle, a global manufacturer of confectionery and gum has donated borehole to Agbara Grammar School, Agbara in Lagos state. The gesture was part of the firm’s corporate social responsibility CSR, to ensure that the students of this school had access to efficient reliable supply of portable drinking water. At the commissioning of the borehole provided for the school, the managing director of Perfetti Van Melle, Nigeria Mr. Rajiv Das, said the firm is committed to promoting quality livelihood among the people and community where they operate and indicated that the initiatives include support for community services According to him, he said, “We have been operating in this Agbara community for the past five to six years ago, and wherever we operate globally, we do things like this for the community, so we insist we are going to begin here in Agbara, and we see this time as the high time we should do something for the community. “Since we have our factory here in Agbara, We believe in doing such communities work for the community, today, we are very happy that we can do something for the school, this is actually a good start for us”. He appreciated the Principal for given them an opportunity to do something, providing drinking water to the students. Das said, we came to the school and find out what they need most, and the water issue came out first, this is the reason why we decided to start with this. Adding that in future obviously there will be other things that we will give to the school and the community. “We have a factory here so we have come to stay with the community, we are here for the the future. In her remarks, the Principal, Agbara Grammar School, expressed her gratitude and also lauded the efforts of Perfetti to transform the school that has produced several successful Nigerians. The elated principal said, “Perfitti Van Melle is a great company. It has done a great thing for us, deeming it fit to give back to the community. The company has fulfilled the dreams of the student who has always dreaming of having water in the school. She assure Perfitti that the infrastructure development will help towards improving good health of both the students and the teachers. She added that the school still needs the intervention of the firm on block of three classrooms, perimeter fencing to check influx of trespassers as she lamented on the issue of security, among others. Also speaking, the King of the Agbara community, Alagbara of Agbara, Oba Lukman Agunbiade, expressed his joy and commended the management of Perfitti for living upto expectations. He called on other firms and corporate bodies to follow suit within the community. He said, “we want to see other corporate companies to do more, with that we will have cause to expand.”