Tragedy has hit a family after 25 passengers died in a road accident in Bauchi State yesterday. The police public relations officer (PPRO) of the Command, DSP Kamal Abubakar, who made the disclosure in a press release, said that the accident occurred at a location close to Gubi village, along Bauchi-Kano road following a collision. The secretary, North-West Zone of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Abdullahi Yamadi, said the deceased were all his relatives, adding that they were 28 in number. He said they were on their way to Yola, Adamawa State when the incident occurred. “Yes, the accident is true and all of the deceased are my relatives. “They were traveling to Yola, Adamawa State, for a visit when the unfortunate incident happened. “This is a very sad news and very pathetic for 28 people from the same family to die in an accident in one day.” However, according to the statement of the PPRO of the Command, DSP Abubakar, the number of casualties was fewer. “There was a fatal motor vehicle accident today (yesterday) at about 0630hrs, at a location close to Gubi village along Bauchi – Kano road involving two motor vehicles, Toyota Hummer bus conveying 22 passengers and a J5 bus conveying 4 passengers and 20 cows,” DSP Abubakar said. He said that the accident occurred when the two vehicles coming from opposite directions had a frontal collision at a point along the road, as a result of which 26 passengers from the two vehicles sustained serious burn injuries.” According to the PPRO, “the victims were immediately evacuated from the scene by security agents with the assistance of good Samaritans to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital for treatment.” He said on reaching the hospital, 25 passengers were confirmed dead by the medical doctor while one survived and is on admission receiving treatment. The police image-maker said all the passengers inside the Toyota bus boarded from Katsina and were on their way to Yola while the passengers in the J5 bus were from Bauchi and were on their way to Kano. He explained that, at the time of issuing the press release, only four corpses from the J5 bus were identified by their families and released for burial while 21 from the Toyata Hummer bus were yet to be identified and claimed by their families.  4 Die In Ondo Auto Four people died while 26 were injured in a road accident involving two buses on the Lagos-Ore-Benin highway in Odigbo local government area of Ondo State. Head of Operations and Deputy Sector Commander of Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) Ondo State Command, Mr Olusegun Ogungbemide, confirmed the incident in Akure, yesterday. Ogungbemide said it involved a Toyota Hiace Bus belonging to GUO Transport marked ACA 606 XT and a bus belonging to Peace Mass Transit marked AKL 846 YY. “There was an accident on Wednesday between 14:32hrs and 14:56hrs in which 30 people were involved. They included 12 male adults, 16 female adults and two female children. “Four people died instantly, 26 were injured including 10 male adults, 14 female adults and two female children,” he said. According to him, the injured had been taken to Ore General Hospital while the corpses had been deposited at Opeyemi Hospital in Ore. Ogungbemide, who said that the two vehicles had been towed away by the police, admonished all motorists to shun over speeding, especially during the Yuletide.  4 Journalists Die In Auto Crash In Uyo Four employees of the Akwa Ibom State-owned print media, the Pioneer Newspapers are reported to have died in an auto crash yesterday evening. Sources said that they journalists were returning from a wedding ceremony of one of the staff members when the incident happened at Ekpene Ikim along Airport road, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. One of the survivors of the crash, who is receiving treatment at a General Hospital, Ituk Mbang, blamed the driver for the incident. He claimed that the driver was on a high speed and eventually lost control of the vehicle while trying to negotiate a bend, causing the bus to somersault several times. The corpses of the dead were deposited in a morgue. Sources said the survivors included the driver who is receiving treatment at the emergency care unit of the Ituk Mbang Hospital. It was however gathered that Governor Udom Emmanuel’s convoy, which was coming from the opposite direction at the time of the crash, assisted some of the victims to the hospital. No official statement by either the police or management of the company had been issued at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Akwa Ibom State chapter, has announced the suspension of some of the programmes a planned as part of activities marking its press week celebration.