The under 17 Northwest Zonal Volleyball competition has ended in Birnin Kebbi at the weekend with Sokoto State emerging as winners for the under 17 girls beach volleyball final while Katsina State emerged as winners for the under 17 boys beach volleyball final. The National Coach for the Female National Volleyball Team, Coach Rakiyyah Mohammad described the competition as an eye opener for both females and male teams in the zone. Coach Mohammad who stated this on Saturday while speaking with newsmen at the Haliru Abdu Stadium, Birnin Kebbi, venue of the competition, noted that the Competition has successfully united young volleyball players irrespective of their religious or tribal affiliations in the zone. She said the competition was organized by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, North- West Zonal headquarters for male and female categories. Mohammad noted that the six participating teams especially female teams exhibited high skills,energy and spirit of sportsmanship. “I am happy, satisfied especially with the performance of female teams. This is an eye opener for all that they could come together as teams and play together. I will just appeal to private investors, individuals to support this game because government cannot do it alone “, she said. The Acting  Permanent  Secretary, Kebbi  State  Ministry  of sports and Youth  Development, Ibrahim  Ladan commended  the organisers  of the game stressing that it would serve  as an avenue  to discover great  players  among  the participant  states. The Zonal Coordinator of Federal Ministry of Youth and Development, Olusoke Luke expressed satisfaction about the discipline displayed by the teams, coaches and the officials of the game. He added that six states out of seven states in the Zone participated in the competition which included, Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Kaduna, Kano and Katsina states. The chairman of Kebbi State Sports Writers Association,Kunle Tajuddeen called on Kebbi State Government to revive sporting compitition in primary and secondary schools in the state. 