The Nigerian military’s massive offensives against Boko Haram in parts of the country were a fitting cap on its bag of successes in 2019.  In this report, GEORGE AGBA examines some of the operations of the armed forces in 2019, otherwise called the great year of the smoking gun The military onslaught last Sunday and on Christmas-eve against Boko Haram insurgents in Biu, Borno State and Damaturu, capital of Yobe State in the North East turned out as, perhaps, one of the best defining moments since the nation’s military, security and intelligence agencies came under the effective coordination of the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) led by the Chief of Defence Staff, CDS, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, NAM. It was widely reported that after a fierce gun duel with troops of Operation Lafiya Dole in collaboration with men of the Civilian-JTF, the insurgents were repelled and lost 48 fighters and three arrested leaving some of the sect’s members fleeing with severe gun-shot wounds and an on-going intensive man-hunt to boot. The year 2019 has indeed been bad market for the merchants of terror- Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) – in Tombus Islands out of the Nigerian territory but within the neighbouring Republic of Chad and Republic of Niger where they now lick their wounds, no thanks to the ferocious troops and the astonishing efficiency of their superior fire power. In other words, the insurgents’ hit-and-run attacks on soft targets from hibernation have been too feeble to take any Nigerian territory, according to local community leaders, residents and other locals who volunteered to speak on behalf of their people in Marte, Kukawa, Chul, Abadan, Rumingo, Lassa, Mussa, Kufa and Gwandam in Askira-Uba- all in Borno State. But a cross-section of residents in villages and communities around Gwoza expressed satisfaction with the operations of the military and other security agencies and the civilian-JTF in the areas of joint operations. However, they specifically expressed desire to have the defence forces maintain their presence to forestall possible terrorist attacks after the troops have deterred them. “Much of the problems we have experienced overtime are the prevalence of ungoverned spaces especially after the military have secured the places for the residents. There should be improved mechanism capable of holding the recovered places otherwise the insurgents continue to pose threats of resurgence thereby creating another ground zero scenario. Otherwise, the military are doing a very good job here”, Isa Dodo Zulum, a community leader in Abadan said. DHQ’s spokesman, Brigadier-General Onyema Nwachukwu also confirmed to reporters in Abuja last Monday that the Nigerian military had effectively pushed Boko Haram and ISWAP to the Tumbus Islands within the Republics of Chad and Niger. He emphasised that no Nigerian territory was under the terrorists groups. He said, “I would like to state categorically that given mode of operations, Boko Haram is not in control of any inch of Nigeria’s territory. I want to make it very clear that Boko Haram has been pushed to the Tumbus Islands. These are the islands between Nigeria and the neighbouring countries of Niger and Chad where they have their enclave and from where they come out launch attacks on soft targets. “Boko Haram is not controlling any inch of our territory. What they do is to watch out for soft targets. There was such intrusion on Sunday (December 22, 2019) around Babandida area of Yobe State and they were severely dealt with”. He stated that the military troops were relentless but cautious in the rescue operations to free Leah Sharibu and other hostages held by the terrorist organisations to ensure their safety. He emphasised that utmost care must be taken not to put her and other captives in greater danger. Leah Sharibu is one of the 120 schoolgirls abducted on February 19, 2018 by insurgents at the Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi in Yobe State. Others were freed but Sharibu was kept by the insurgents for allegedly refusing to denounce her Christian faith and convert to Islam. But Gen Nwachukwu gave assurance that the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole were working tirelessly to ensure that Sharibu and other persons still in Boko Haram’s custody were rescued alive. He said, “Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have been treading cautiously because these people are all in the hands of terrorists and any reckless move may result intheir annihilation by the terrorists just to ward off the troops. It is a very complex and risky operation but the troops are working to ensure that they are rescued”. The military spokesman also listed five joint military operations being currently coordinated by the DHQ across the country as Operation Safe Haven, Operation Hadarin Daji, Operation Thunder Strike, Operation Whirl Stroke and Operation Delta Safe, pointing out that activities of the joint operations had increased in the last three months and driven with astonishing efficiency, resulting in amazing results and to the satisfaction and the command directives of the CDS, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. He disclosed that under Operation Delta Safe (OPDS), troops successfully averted 64 attempted infractions on Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) pipelines. He added that the troops arrested 27 suspected militants/sea pirates, recovered nine AK47 rifles with 755 rounds of ammunition. According to him, OPDS also embarked on rigorous anti-kidnapping operations resulting in the rescue of over 43 victims and the arrest of 4 suspected kidnappers. Under Operation Hadarin Daji in Zamfara State and its environs, he said that the troops arrested 389 suspected bandits, 48 suspected kidnappers as well as rescued 1,048 kidnap victims within the period under review. Gen Nwachukwu said that the troops also recovered 5,567 rustled cattle, 2,499 sheep, 973 goats, 15 camels and 14 donkeys. Other items recovered from the bandits, he said, included 58 AK-47 rifles, 5 G3 rifles, 5FN rifles, 7 pump action guns and 95 locally-made guns. Others are 3 rocket-propelled grenade launchers, 12,838 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, 100 rounds of cartridges and 128 magazines. He further disclosed that about 266,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) were returned to their ancestral homes under Operation Whirl Stroke conducted in the North-Central in the last three months. Expectedly, the activities and accomplishments of the military in the face of relentless threats to national security across the country have elicited kudos, praises and commendation galore from eminent Nigerians, commentators, analysts and advocacy groups. A civil advocacy group, Concerned Professionals Congress (CPC) commended the military and other security agencies for the series of achievements towards keeping the Nigerian people safe from the onslaught of dare-devil criminals masquerading as religious crusaders. It commended the military and other security agencies for last Sunday’s and Christmas-eve defeat of Boko Haram insurgents in Biu, Borno State and Damaturu, capital of Yobe State, saying that it was the best Christmas gift this year to the people of the North East where it said that the insurgents had laboured unsuccessfully to control for ten years. The civil advocacy group praised the troops’ gallantry, describing the successful operations as another proof that they have effectively pushed Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) out of the Nigerian territory. The group stated this in a joint press release issued in Abuja at the weekend by its Chief Media Strategist, Mr Emeka Nwankpa and the Northern Regional Rapporteur, Kasim Baba Kasim. In the statement, it commended the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and the service chiefs for tirelessly driving efficient force with the capacity and capability to rout the insurgents and guarantee safety to the Nigerian people. The group called for more public support for the military and other security agencies across religious, regional, political and governmental levels in the country, cautioning against what it called careless public statements and narrations in some quarters that are capable of giving publicity to Boko Haram. “There is no better time than now for all Nigerians across divides to give support to our military and other security  forces currently combating Boko Haram, ISWAP, kidnappers, cattle rustlers and other criminals fighting against the peace, security and stability of the country. “The Federal Government has no greater duty than defending the Nigerian people, the Nigerian territory, and Nigerian interests including promoting its peace, prosperity, well-being, security and stability. Today, even as the optics are getting more challenging, it is good news that our defence forces have contained and restricted these extremist and criminal gangs to the fringes”, Nwankpa said. “The choices we make today and in the immediate future have profound and lasting consequences for our security, liberty and prosperity. We must therefore square up to the challenges now and this is what the CDS, the service chiefs and their team of patriotic officers are doing for the Nigerian people”, Nwankpa said. Nwankpa expressed confidence in the CDS-led leadership to guarantee national security, peace and stability, noting that the Nigerian Armed Forces was globally reputed for innovative gallantry and professionalism. The group praised military commanders and troops either serving or had served at the various military operations across the country for exhibiting rare commitment and devotion to the critical objective of keeping the nation safe, stable and secure. On his part, governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State who had a personal and first-hand near-terror experience in Damaturu was full of praise for the military and the security joint forces for effectively repelling the Boko Haram fighters who invaded the Yobe State capital last Sunday, citing the troops’ courage and determination as responsible for the sustained onslaught which prevented the insurgents from unleashing terror on the people of the state. The advocacy group observed that the several successes recorded by the troops were fallout of the policy of inter-agency synergy, collaboration and cooperation efficiently driven by the Defence Headquarters under the CDS, General Abayomi Olonisakin. It maintained that the entire Northern region would have been lost to the terrorists if the counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations were not being courageously and vigorously pursued by the armed forces with ruthless efficiency. The group disclosed that the successful series of military onslaught on the insurgents is a bold testament to the deliberate policy of jointness being driven by the leadership of the nation’s top military command under the CDS, General Abayomi Olonisakin. It praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his confidence in the capacity and competence of the armed forces to dislodge criminal elements to guarantee the security, stability, peace and unity of the country. “We commend the energetic Chief of Defence, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. His unique style of leadership rooted in jointness, synergy and inter-agency cooperation has galvanized the entire national security architecture to effectively tackle Boko Haram and other national security threats”, he said. The group urged remnants of Boko Haram to drop their arms, saying that their days ahead were numbered. It maintained that time was fast running out on them in the light of the re-calibrated counter-terrorism operations. It charged Nigerians to close ranks and fully support the military and other security forces by volunteering credible, useful and timely information to aid ongoing operations to rid the country of criminal elements in the interest of the security, unity, stability, health and sovereignty of the nation. “We should remind ourselves where we were and where we are now and what happened in-between. The Borno State people know what our military and other security agencies have done in the past years, paying the supreme price to deliver peace to the people. It could have been worse”, he said. Observers believe that the DHQ has remained the unseen hand in the various strings of successes achieved by the military, security and intelligence agencies working in strategic synergy and collaborative jointness in combating security challenges across the country. It was also revealed that the giant strides by the respective services of the military are traceable to his transformational leadership that sees the entire gamut of the nation’s security architecture as his primary constituency. DHQ inside sources maintain that apart from his ability to remain calm in the face of grave challenges, the CDS’ major staying power is his uncanny ability to listen and consult widely across the rank and file in the services. “To cap it all, he is a great planner. He wears his devotion to duty such that it can be seen at a distance. Strategy is his middle name which perhaps is traceable to the vision he set out shortly after assuming office ‘to ensure a well-motivated, trained and equipped Armed Forces that is responsive to national security commitments. “We have never had it so good as far as welfare, training, motivation, innovation and devotion to duty are concerned. Above all, he treats every staff with warmth and respect such that you would do anything to please him. This is why today, it is an understatement that he has more than exceeded that target. He means well for this country and we are the better for it”, said a serving colonel who spoke anonymously. Also commenting, a Gwoza-based Islamic scholar, Machala Umar Machala said, “We would have been unlucky to have lost the entire North East to Boko Haram had the present political leadership under President Muhammadu Buhari not emerged to save this nation from the criminals. We owe him a debt of gratitude for assembling highly courageous service men under the leadership of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. “It is not surprising that the entire global community has applauded them for the highly-successful battle against terror that has resulted in the steady decimation of the Boko Haram terrorists to the point that they have since lost the capacity to launch organised attacks in the region”, he said.