Former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) has reflected on his four-year detention by the federal government and declared that he bears no grudges against anybody over his ordeal. Dasuki said that his incarceration was an act of God, declaring that he had no feud with President Muhammadu Buhari. In a radio interview yesterday with Voice of America (Hausa Service), Dasuki explained that he stopped going to court because the federal government refused to release him despite meeting all the bail conditions. The former NSA was arrested in December 2015 and arraigned in court for alleged $2.1billion corruption while in office under the President Goodluck Administration. The money was purportedly used by that administration to prosecute the 2015 presidential election under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and lost to President Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Some PDP chieftains, serving and ex-governors have been indicted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for receiving various amount of money from Dasuki to campaign for the PDP. Asked if he felt his detention was a payback for the role he played in the 1985 coup which sacked the Buhari regime, Dasuki, who spent four years in the Department of State Services (DSS) custody before he was freed on Tuesday, said that he was not aware of such a motive. He said that his detention was designed by God and that he had no comments to pass to the government on his ordeal in custody. Dasuki said: “What I know is that God designed this to happen. Nothing more! I have no feud with anybody. I can’t engage in a feud with anyone. There is no sort of feud between the President and myself. I am more than that. I can’t engage in a feud with anyone,” Dasuki stated. He continued: “Everything that happens to an individual is from God. It is only God’s will that will prevail. It is ignorance or lack of faith that pushes some to think that certain individuals are behind their predicaments. Everything is ordained by God. As you said, I was detained for four years and I am out today. Only God knows tomorrow. “The only thing is that there must be fairness. Whoever goes to the Mosque on Friday must surely have heard the Imam always preach for fairness and honesty. There is a reason for that. Everyone should listen to it,” Dasuki said. Dasuki said that there were no words enough to show appreciation for all the prayers offered, adding that “all we can do is to thank them and pray to God to reward them abundantly. We have seen the results of their prayers.” He thanked God for his good health, stressing that he was hale and hearty. Dasuki also said that he was ready to defend himself against the allegations of money laundering and corruption levelled against him by the federal government, noting that “I resolved that anytime they released me, I will appear before the court and defend myself, I am ready.” The ex-NSA was freed on Tuesday following a directive by the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami, after spending over four years in detention.