In this report, TUNDE OGUNTOLA examines the security situation at Magama Jibia in Katsina State North-west sector Zone 4 Command of the federal government border drill exercise “My family and I would not forget 14 Novem- ber, 2018 in a hurry. It is a year and two weeks now, but it remains one of the saddest days in our lives. Yes, I escaped being kidnapped, but my wife did not. “I am a trader and a seasonal farmer. This sad incident occurred before I got home after I closed my store around 11:30pm. When I got home, I saw the whole house looking scattered and my wife did not come out to welcome me as she usually did. My neighbours were also not aware that my wife had been kidnapped until my children who were already sleeping woke up and could not find their mother. They started crying and looking for their mother. ‘’When we reached out to her abductors, we were asked to pay N10m as ransom. I had to con- tact my family and friends to help me out, be- cause I did not have much money. “They released her after nine days of trauma- tising encounter with them. We were able to give them N1.6m before she was released. Her kid- napping and subsequent events that follow were very traumatising and my household cannot for- get easily. Perhaps I was their target. I might have been their victim, but I was not at home, because I was at the shop till late in the night waiting for my goods to arrive.’’ This is the story of Haruna Ibrahim, a 52-year- old trader who resides in Magama Jibia, Katsina State, whose wife suffered in the hands of gun- men who abducted her for nine days. His family, according to him, has not recovered from the trauma of the incident. He explained that the kidnappers found their way into his house without the neighbours sus- pecting them. Ibrahim said they arrived at close to midnight, and did not fire any gunshot in his home but carted away his wife to the forest. Speaking further, Ibrahim said he was very happy that the border was now closed, as it had led to a relative calm in their community. He said kidnapping was gradually becoming a thing of the past. He added that although the border drill had led to a reduction of his daily sales, he was still glad that their community was now more secured. “The border should remain closed. I am very happy that we can easily identify ourselves in the community. The presence of security agen- cies has also helped to reduce kidnapping, vio- lence, crime and insecurity of all sorts in the com- munity,’’ he added. Another resident of Magama Jibia, Danladi Muazu, 42 years old, who is a commercial mo- torcycle rider, also expressed gladness over the closure of the border. Muazu, who spoke in the Hausa language, said most of the kidnappers came to the town on motorcycles, which has largely given them a bad name.
He said kidnapping for ransom was gradually becoming a norm in the community before the border drill, as even ordinary Nigerians are kidnapped.
“I ply Magama Jibia and Niger routes dai- ly with commuters to look for my daily bread. I am a motorcycle rider. This border drill is a thing of joy to us and we are very happy. Before now, armed robbers and kidnappers will come to our homes as early as 7:00pm to kidnap us and steal our belongings. ‘’Some people even sleep far away from their houses. But with the border drill, we can now move freely in our community. If the kidnap- pers meet you in the house, they will abduct you including your wife and even your relations at home. We are very grateful to God for this bor- der closure,’’ he said.
Muazu said beyond the major border at Maga- ma Jibia, there are other routes through which kidnappers gain access into the town, but are now closed by security agencies which has led to im- proved security in the border community. According to him,
‘’Beyond the major border, there are other routes that can be used to gain ac- cess into the town, and wreak havoc in our com- munity and easily run away. Before the border drill, people move freely into our town, but all the routes are now guarded by security agents, and they now search to ensure that you are not with any banned items. “We were very scared before now. All we want is to live peacefully and happily too. Since the bor- der drill I have not heard of any kidnapping and I am very happy. “I was born in this town 42 years ago and I am happy that we can now sleep with our two eyes closed.’’ He further stated that with border drill res- idents in the community are now more security conscious unlike before when the border was opened and porous. He said on their part they easily ask suspecting person questions to know their intentions in the community.
He said: “We are now conscious of our environ- ment. If we see any strange person on the motor- cycle, we can easily call that person and ask him questions to identify his purpose and intention in our community.’’ He also urged the government to reduce all forms of insecurity in other local government areas in the state.
“We are no longer scared like before in Magama Jibia. We can now move freely in our commu- nity without fear of being kidnapped or robbed,’’ he added. Just like Ibrahim and Muazu, Aminu Sadiq, 35, described the border drill as a blessing in dis- guise to the border community. He said with the border closure, armed robbery and kidnapping had reduced drastically. Sadiq, who is a petty trader admits that the se- curity situation in the town has improved with the border drill. He, however, lamented that business is not booming in the community unlike before. According to him, ’’The border drill has led to improved security in the community, but it is also having an adverse effect on our businesses as you can see. Yes, the border drill is good as we are now more secured, but we need to feed our family too.” We’re on ground to combat security threat at Jibia – Official Meanwhile, an immigration official who does not want his name mentioned on print said, the security agents at Magama Jibia border has, on several occasions, engaged gunmen in a shootout.
He said some of the smugglers are well known to the security agents. He said that they will resist any attempt that can lead to a breakdown of law and order in the border town. ‘’We are ready for them. We will resist any attempt that can lead to a breakdown of law and order in the border. We are on ground,’’ he said. Security situation before the border drill LEADERSHIP Weekend reports that before the border drill, abductions have become too common in Katsina and oth- er northwest states and elsewhere across the country. Katsina State has particularly been un- der siege of bandits. LEADERSHIP checks revealed that about 2,000 people had been killed, 500 communities destroyed and over 33,000 people displaced as a re- sult of the incessant attacks. Some of the affected eight local govern- ment areas where kidnapping and activ- ities of bandits are prone in Katsina are: Jibia, Kankara, Faskari, Dan-Musa, Safa- na, Sabuwa, Dandume, and Batsari.
It was more disturbing that the killings and ab- ductions by bandits became so bad that no part of the affected councils were free from their grip. Nonetheless, stakeholders noted that the pragmatic approach made by the gov- ernment in stemming the scenario in the state deserves commendation from all.
It was largely reported that before now, instability has roiled Katsina, with a high rate of drug abuse in the state, the home state of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The government often attributes the attacks to bandits, a term applied to out- laws who rob, kidnap and kill residents.
One of the recent deadly attacks in the state occurred at about 11:30 pm on Tuesday, August 27, 2019, were gunmen raided the Wurma Village of Katsina and picked up anyone they could find. It was a bloody kidnap operation, residents said. Alhaji Musa, whose two daughters were among those taken, confirmed that more than 100 bandits were “shooting from all angles. “They operated for about three hours with nobody to challenge them,” he added. However, with the border drill, the tide seems to be changing for good. Also, if the recent body language of Governor Aminu Bello Masari is anything to go by, his desire is to end the orgies of death imposed by the miscreant operating in eight frontline local government areas of the state, who have held people of the council’s hostage through banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling and other nefarious activities. Border drill has curtailed the in- flow of arms and ammunition – FG The federal government has disclosed that the border drill has drastically cur- tailed the inflow of arms and ammuni- tion, as bandits and terrorists are finding it hard to procure arms and ammunition. Speaking at north-west sector four- zone, Magama Jibia in Katsina State when he led a federal government delega- tion to access the impact of border drill on the nation, while addressing stakeholders in the community, said bandits and terorists are finding it hard to procure arms and ammunition. Alhaji Mohammed said having been briefed by the relevant officials here at the Jibia border post with Niger, we have a lot of good news to report, regarding the benefits of the drill from this post. He said, ‘’The drill has drastically cur- tailed the inflow of arms and ammunition. Bandits and terrorists are finding it hard to procure arms and ammunition, hence we have recorded a reduction in cases of cattle rustling, kidnapping, armed banditry, which were predominant in the north-west region; these acts have now been significantly reduced. “The arms and ammunition being used by violent extremists and criminal elements no longer make their way into the country through the land borders. Of course, this will also have a negative ef- fect on the insurgency.” The minister also disclosed that since ongoing border drill in four geo-political zones of the country, the Nigerian Cus- toms Service (NCS) now generates be- tween N5 and N8 billion daily.
He said the nation now recorded over 30 per cent increase in revenue since the drill and has drastically curtailed the inflow of arms and ammunition. On banditry, Mohammed maintained that the nation now records a reduction in cases of cattle rustling, kidnapping, armed banditry, which were predomi- nant in the North-west region adding that these nefarious acts have now been significantly reduced. The minister said that the arms and ammunition being used by violent ex- tremists and criminal elements no longer make their way into the country through the land borders. According to him, “The main reason for embarking on the drill is to protect our country against transnational secu- rity concerns such as smuggling, Prolif- eration of small arms and light weapons, irregular migration as well as terrorism and armed banditry, among a host of oth- er concerns. “This exercise is not targeted at any re- gion in the country, neither is it designed to cripple businesses in any part of the country, as some conspiracy theorists have been insinuating. As a matter of fact, since the exercise commenced over three months ago, local businesses across the country have continued to thrive, as farmers and rice millers, in particular, are now having turnover on Investments.’’ On the closure of fuelling stations close to border communities, he said the drill has also curtailed smuggling of pe- troleum products out of Nigeria.
He noted that the closure of filling sta- tions along the border was a huge success. He said, ‘’Smuggling of petroleum products out of Nigeria has been great- ly reduced. the closure of filling stations along the border is a huge success. There are hundreds of filling stations along the border. We counted many as we drove to the border this morning. They were set up purposely for smuggling. They don’t sell the fuel consignment they receive to the public, plus 50 per cent of them are owned by foreigners. Now that they are closed, we have recorded over 30 per cent in domestic fuel consumption. He said the northwest sector, of the four sectors affected by the drill, has re- corded the highest success in terms of re- duction of irregular migration. ‘’Nigeria will continue to work with neighbouring countries to ensure that all the incidents that led to exercise swift response are fully addressed. We call on all key stakeholders, including the media, to ensure that the desired objectives of this drill, which is to advance a secured, peaceful and pros- perous Nigeria, are fully accomplished,’’ he added. Alhaji Mohammed was accompa- nied by the minister of state for Indus- try, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum and the minister of state for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba.
Some of the community’s stakehold- ers present during the inspection were the district head of Dadara, Usman Us- man and the district head of Jibia, Rabe Rabiu. No Date Yet On Reopening Of Borders – PMB President Buhari has also said that no date had been fixed to reopen the bor- ders.
Buhari said that he had not given any date for the reopening of the land border until the situation improves. His position on the issue was contained in a statement issued by his spokesman, Garba Shehu.
While receiving a delegation of Katsina State Elders’ Forum at his country home in Daura, the president said that the country’s domestic fuel consumption had dropped by more than 30 per cent, following the closure of the land borders. He commended the actions taken by the President of Niger Republic, Muham- madou Youssoufou, including the dis- missal of officials and a ban on the use of the country as a dumping ground for Nigeria-bound smuggled goods.