Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has assured the people of his administration’s commitment to concentrate on the comparative advantages of the state in order to take Kogi economy to the next level. Speaking through his Director General of Media and Publicity, Kingsley Fanwo in Lokoja, Friday, the Governor expressed confidence in leading the state and her people to prosperity. Governor Bello in a statement issued by Fanwo said the last four years have seen his administration “striving to remove the state from social and economic shambles”, assuring that it is time he moved the State forward into sustainable development. It reads in parts: “Kogi has been seen as the capital of mineral resources in the country with the presence of heavy mineral resources in the state. The State is also home to rich human capital. We have water bodies that are massive and historic as well as a good number of tourist traps. “But we believe our prosperity is not only in those minerals and tourist sites. We have a massive advantage in our location. We are at the center of 10 big states and many states in about three geo-political zones need our gates to enter the Federal Capital Territory. “Our Economic Team is looking at harnessing these realizable potentials to boost our economy and create more opportunities for our people. “As a Government, we will continue to promote agriculture in order to create more jobs, more opportunities and more windows to mitigate poverty in the society. Kogi is already a leader in Cashew and Cassava production. We want to do more as well as attract investors all over the world to help us convert our potentials to wealth. “Our administration was re-elected to do more. We were re-elected to create more infrastructure and give more security to our people. The administration will never let the people down. The momentum will be sustained as leaving a good legacy of development remains the priority of the New Direction Government. “On November 16, history was made as we recorded an unprecedented margin in our electoral victory. We thank the people for the massive endorsement of our programs and policies. We will do more”. Governor Bello call on Kogites to cooperate with him in order to continue to make Kogi peaceful and free of criminal activities, saying it was the only way investors can have confidence in the state. He assured that the next level of his administration will deploy more technology in combating crimes as his administration remains committed to making all Kogites safe. “The New Direction Government will continue to drive its efforts in education,  which is the bulwark of our progress. We will also continue to improve the quality of personnel and facilities in our healthcare system. To us, youth and women empowerment is non-negotiable. “We urge Kogites around the world to partner with us in marketing the unbeatable brand that our state represents. As a Government, we will continue to provide the enabling environment for innovation and prosperity”. Governor Bello said the state Internal Revenue Service has improved the revenue generated internally by the State, expressing confidence that the Service will be a “veritable driver” of the 2020 Budget. 