Kebbi State with a population of over three million people is an agrarian society with over 70 per cent living in rural areas. A majority of this population are made up of women and children. Sadly this young enterprising state has one of the worst health indices in terms of maternal mortality in Nigeria. YAHYA SARKI writes. Maternal mortality is a bane to families and the society as a whole. If a mother dies at childbirth then who caters through motherly love and care for the child? It is also an immeasurable loss to society as a future generation could have come through the mother had she lived to contribute to society’s development. While Nigeria’s maternal mortality ratio according to recent 2018 National Demographic Health Survey is 512 deaths per 100,000 live births for the seven year period before the survey, that of Kebbi State which is one of the highest in Nigeria is put at 1025 per 100,000 live births (One thousand twenty five women per one thousand live births) according to UNICEF report of 2018. The NDHS 2018 report also says that the estimated maternal mortality rate of 890 deaths/1000,000 live births and the estimate for respondents below 30 years of 1286 deaths/100,000 live births in Kebbi State are higher than the national average of 576 deaths/100,000 live births and is equally one of the highest in the world. The estimates again underscore the assertion that Kebbi State has one of the highest burden of maternal mortality in Nigeria and bulk of that number is from rural areas. It also says Kebbi State, one of the north western states, has one of the worst reproductive health indices in Nigeria. More than two-third (71 per cent) of pregnant women in the state never attended antenatal care; 91 per cent of the women delivered at home; less than 10 per cent had skilled birth attendance during the most recent birth, among others. It should be noted that maternal mortality includes deaths of women during pregnancy, delivery and 42 days after delivery. Leadership Sunday investigations reveals that the major causes of maternal mortality in Kebbi State apart from illiteracy, lack of awareness socio cultural beliefs, and lack of adequate health facilities, is that many women in the rural areas do not patronise Health facilities, but deliver their babies at home and do not come for ante natal or post natal check up. A small number of pregnant women in rural areas either go for ANC or post natal care in primary health centers in the state, but the number of women who patronise hospitals or primary healthcare centers in urban or semi urban areas is higher. A recent visit by our reporter to Takalau Primary Healthcare Centre located in Birnin Kebbi showed that many women in the area patronise the health facility for ANC ,delivery or post natal care. The Takalau Primary Healthcare Center is one of the primary health centers renovated by the Kebbi State Government in collaboration with UNICEF. Both the Kebbi State Government and UNICEF have undertaken to renovate and equip all the existing 225 health facilities across the state. The Community Health Extension Worker Rukayya Gado who is the second in command of the health facility told Leadership Sunday that the 15 bed capacity primary health facility in Takalau receives at least 20 women per day, who come for ANC while over five come for post natal on daily basis. She explained that women in the area patronise the health facility with the children. “Actually the patronage is good here, women come for ANC , delivery and even post natal because they believe that here we have presence of skilled health providers. We conduct ANC Tuesdays and Wednesdays featuring health talk on ANC, exclusive breastfeeding, nutrition,child spacing and HIV / AIDS counselling”. She also said parents bring their children for routine immunization between Monday and Fridays. Some of the challenges the facility is facing according to her included lack of fencing, inadequate drugs due to high patronage by women , inadequate delivery beds, lack of enough equipment like blood Pressure apparatus ,lack of cold store for vaccine storage and inadequate furniture. Hafsat Usman, a 22 year old mother who attended the health facility for post natal after she delivered her third baby at home said, “ I come for post natal here. The baby was born at home three weeks ago, I bring him here for check up because he is always crying of stomach pain,” she said. When asked why she delivered the baby at home , she said it has been the trend with her since her first delivery. She is used to delivering at home and then would afterwards come to the health facility for check up and post natal. At Gotomo Primary Health Facility, a village in between Birnin Kebbi and Argungu local government area, the Community Health Worker there, Amina Kake lamented that the patronage by women to the health facility was low. She said between 10 to 12 pregnant women come for ANC on daily basis while five come for post natal. According to her many women in the area deliver at home and do not even come for post natal check up at the facility in the village. “I still don’t know why women here do not come to the health facility to deliver or come for ANC and post natal check. Sometimes when I ask them why they deliver at home, they will say that their husbands do not allow them to come to the hospital but rather they will go and look for traditional health attendant for them,” she lamented. The health personnel also said that some of the challenges facing the health facility in Gotomo included inadequate drugs, working equipment like delivery beds ( not a single delivery bed ) in the facility, non functional water system and the security guarding the facility is not on pay roll. A pregnant woman, Maimuna Musa (20 years) came to the facility for ANC . According to her, she was attending the primary health facility for the first time and promised to always return for check up until she delivers. However when she was asked if she will come to the facility to deliver her baby she simply smiled with no answer. ‘’ I come for check up because I am pregnant and I do not know if I will deliver at home or here, that I can’t say , it is the decision of my husband “, she concluded. Kebbi State government in collaboration with stakeholders such as international development organizations such as WHO,UNICEF, and other NGOs and CSOs, have taken a number of steps to reverse the high mortality rate in the state. One of such steps is the renovation and equipping of 225 primary health centers across the state which is ongoing. In September, 2019, the Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu while commissioning the renovated Takalau health facility, urged community members especially women and children to patronise the facility for better health. According to the governor, over 20 healthcare facilities across the state have been renovated out of the 225 centers in collaboration with the Unicef and Kebbi State Government. “This is a renovation following agreement and support programme between the European Union and Kebbi Government, however the support programme is being implemented in Kebbi State with UNICEF,” he said. The Kebbi State government has also entered into partnership with the state chapter of National Union of Road Transport Workers ( NURTW) to transport pregnant women and children in rural areas to primary health centers or hospitals for delivery. The scheme which was launched in October, 2017 is still functional. The then Commissioner of Health , Alhaji Usman Kambaza during the flag off of the programme said the emergency transport scheme was conceived to check delay of reaching health facilities especially in hard to reach areas as well as mountainous terrain and riverine areas. “ It is worthy to note that out of 4000 settlements in Kebbi, 55 percent are hard to reach based on location in riverine , mountainous , sandy or presence of gullies.” He said the emergency transport scheme was a public private partnership collaboration between the National Union of Road Transport Workers ( NURTW), Ministry of Health, State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Ministry of Women Affairs , Federal Roads Safety Commission ( FRSC) , State Inspection Vehicle Division (VIO), Nigeria Police among others. Concerned by high maternal mortality in Kebbi State and the recent health report released by the National Demographic Health Statistics of 2018 , the wife of Kebbi State Governor, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu who is also a medical doctor and founder of Medicaid Cancer Foundation, summoned a meeting of women leaders at the grassroots in Kebbi State recently to see how she could mobilize women before 2020 to take drastic action in order to reverse the ugly trend. The meeting which was held at the Presidential Banquet Hall in Birnin Kebbi was attended by wives of local government chairmen, wives of councillors, 23 elected councillors, wives of legislators, women leaders, coordinators, education secretaries and officials from the state primary healthcare agency. Dr. Bagudu said she summoned the meeting of the key women stakeholders at the grassroots level to inform them of the poor health statics, especially on the maternal mortality and the need to join hands and mobilize the women in order to reverse the trend. She pointed out to them that 80 percent of women living in rural areas do not have access to the mass media hence the need to gather women leaders at the grassroots to take the message to their respective areas to reach out to women in rural areas where the perception of women on health and education was very low. Mrs Bagudu opined that Kebbi State Government under the leadership of Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, was doing alot to improve the health sector however the survey showed that Kebbi in Northwest was still at disadvantage. “ We all have to engage with other women at the grassroots to tell them the problem we are facing, we have to teach them how to go about the advocacy for women to go to hospital for ante natal at least four times a month. “Women at the grassroots must be persuaded to deliver their babies in the hospitals, immunise their babies and sleep under mosquito treated nets “. According to her, in 2020, the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency down to the State Healthcare Agency would be rolling out a new method to further down size maternal mortality. She said under the new method which she would also key in and champion, women would be taught the things to be looking at under the new method of advocacy. “We are going to advocate for increased funding in education , increase funding to primary healthcare, it is an emergency intervention that I am keying in to champion and it involves the women, each local government will have its own”. The wife of Kebbi governor, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu assured that in 2020 alot will happen in order to ensure that maternal mortality in Kebbi State has reduced. Speaking on the same vein, the Executive Secretary Kebbi State Primary Healthcare Development Agency ,Dr. Abubakar A. Kaoje also admitted that maternal mortality in Kebbi was high but the state government is taking concrete measures to reduce or reverse high maternal mortality in Kebbi State. He started by highlighting why maternal mortality is high in Kebbi State. “You see there is lack of awareness especially in rural areas, there is social cultural factors. Most of our people especially in the rural areas believe that going to the hospital to deliver baby is a sign of weakness on the part of the woman, except there is a problem during birth. “Others included lack of enough skilled medical staff such as nurses and midwives in our hospitals of primary health centers and the the poor infrastructural condition of primary health centers of facilities,” he explained. Dr. Kaoje has however opined that the Kebbi State government more than any other time was determined to reverse the high maternal mortality in the state by taking a number of measures such as putting all activities of primary health care under one umbrella to ensure proper coordination, funding primary healthcare by pooling money from local governments to support primary health care routine activities, called LGA/PHC Basket Fund . He also said that Government has approved under the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA), the rolling out of State Emergency Maternal and Child Health Coordination Center (SEMCHC), as well as renovation of primary health care centers. He explained that about 76 primary health care centers have so far been renovated out of the existing 225 primary healthcare centers in the state.