Justice Anwuli Chikere of a Federal High Court in Abuja, has ordered the director-general of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Alex Okoh, to be remanded in prison for a minimum of 30 days. Justice Anwuri Chikere, who gave the order, accused Mr Okoh of serial disobedience of the Supreme Court order on the ownership controversy of the Aluminium Smelter Company of Nigeria (ALSCON). ALSCON has been a subject of an ownership struggle since the government privatised the firm in 2004. Russia’s Rusal claims ownership of the company while the indigenous BFIG won a Supreme Court judgement backing its ownership claim. Despite multiple court rulings, the federal government, represented by the privatisation agency, BPE, has refused to transfer ownership of the firm to BFIG. While BFIG won the initial bid in 2004, the BPE cancelled the process in controversial circumstances. BFIG approached the court to reclaim ALSCON. In April 2019, BFIG initiated contempt proceedings against the BPE and the director-general, Mr Okoh. The judge ruled yesterday that the continued refusal to obey the Supreme Court order was a fundamental violation of the rule of law, which portrays the government as lawless Meanwhile, the BPE has filed a motion for stay of execution and Notice of Appeal against the judgment. It would be recalled that a committal proceeding was instituted against BPE and Mr. Alex A. Okoh, DG, BPE following an allegation that the BPE failed to fully execute the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nigeria and Court of Appeal in the matter of BFIG v. BPE. The BPE said in a statement that: ‘‘The Bureau had at all times complied with all judgments in respect of ALSCON. However, BFIG has serially defaulted in meeting its financial commitments as directed by the courts to pay the bid price of USD$410 million as submitted by BFIG in 2004. ‘‘The federal government is committed to economic development through privatisation and putting its assets to optimal use through the course of fairness and due process.’’