The federal government through the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has extended the deadline of the ongoing insurance industry recapitalisation exercise to 31st of December, 2020. The insurance industry regulator had earlier put the deadline at 30th of June 2020, but insurance stakeholders have been canvassing for extension owing to the fact that some operators are still at the preliminary stage of implementing their recapitalisation plans. This extension, however, confirms LEADERSHIP story published last week on the possible insurance recapitalisation deadline extension. A circular issued by the commission, signed by its director, Policy and Regulation, Mr. Pius Agboola, on behalf of the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, and sent to all insurance and reinsurance companies of which a copy was made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday, said, NAICOM has reviewed the Recapitalisation plans submitted by operators and various levels of compliance observed. According to the regulatory body, “Similarly, it has noted the inputs from the various engagements with relevant stakeholders. The Commission therefore hereby extends the recapitalisation deadline to December 31, 2020.” It also directed insurance companies to deposit fresh funds raised for recapitalisation into Escrow Accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
As part of the measures to ease the recapitalisation exercise, NAICOM said, some of the relevant agencies have set up Help Desk to fast track processing of application for ‘No Objection’ and for approvals, adding that, engagements with these agencies on other palliatives are ongoing. NAICOM had raised the minimum paid-up share capital of a Life insurance company from N2 billion to N8 billion; Non-Life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion and Composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion. Re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. LEADERSHIP had, last week, reported that barely six months to the 30th of June, 2020 deadline earlier given to insurance companies in the country to recapitalise to the new capital threshold, about 50 per cent of operators are still at the preliminary stage of implementing their recapitlIsation plan. To this end, findings show that insurance stakeholders are mounting pressure on the NAICOM to extend the deadline, especially, for companies going into mergers and acquisitions as such business combination takes time to reach a compromise. While NAICOM has not publicly come out to announce deadline extension, sources in the commission said the regulatory body may extend the deadline, after proper review of the level of implementation of the approved recapitalization plans of each insurer. From indication, the extension is basically being considered because of those engaging in mergers and acquisition to give them enough time to discuss with their investors and relevant parties while getting the needed regulatory approvals before sealing such business combination. As it were, eight insurers that wanted to toll this path are still at the preliminary stage of discussion with the parties involved, while experiences from other climes where mergers and acquisition had occurred shows that the remaining six months is not enough to seal such business deal because of, not only the bureaucracy involved, but also the due diligence that must be carried out to ascertain the level of liabilities to be acquired. Although, most companies preferred capital injection through public and private shareholders, the process of regulatory approval for such deals, especially, for the listed entities, according to market observers, takes longer time, which would make extending the deadline the ideal option to give a level playing ground for all. To this end, at the last Insurers Committee Meeting held in Lagos earlier in the month, insurance operators proposed to NAICOM for deadline extension while the regulator promised to review their proposal before deciding on whether to extend the deadline or not. “At the meeting, operators proposed to NAICOM to extend the recapitalisation deadline to give operators more time to raise the needed capital and the commission has asked us to articulate our request and forward them to it for deliberation,” said, Chairman, Brand and Publicity Sub-committee of the Insurers Committee, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, who also doubles as the managing director/CEO, NSIA Insurance Limited.