The Federal High Court, sitting in Awka, Anambra State, has granted an order restraining the Nigeria Police Force and Nigeria Army from arresting of Barr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor, the lawyer of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The Anambra State Command of the Nigeria Police Force had declared Ejiofor wanted over the killing of two police officers in the state. The  restraining order was given on December 13, 2019 by the honourable Justice B.O. Quadri. In a related development, the IPOB Lawyer has called for a public inquiry into the brutal invasion of his house in  Oraifite by personnel of the Nigerian Police and Nigerian army on December 2, 2019, masterminded according to him, by the  commissioner of Police in Anambra State, Officer in charge of SARS Oraifite Area Command, and billionaire business man and politician Emeka Offor who hails from the village. Barrister Ejiofor, in a statement in Abuja, said the raid on his house was an assassination attempt on his life, and that the policemen and soldiers ended up killing six unarmed youths working to remove canopies and other leftovers used in the funeral ceremony in his elder brother, burning down his house, the house of his deceased brother and about 40 shops on the street leading to his house, and shooting at everybody and everything in sight including animals. However, Justice Quadri said the interim order of the court set aside the declaration made by the 3rd respondent (Anambra State police commissioner) on December 3, 2019, declaring Barrister Ejiofor a ‘wanted person’ pending the hearing and determination of the substantive application before the honourable court. Justice Quadri, therefore, granted: “An order of interim injunction restraining the respondents, their privies, agents, or howsoever called from taking any steps to execute the warrant of arrest issued against the applicant and staying all actions in connection with this matter, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive application before this honourable court. “An order of interim injunction restraining the respondents, their privies, agents, or howsoever called from interfering in any way with the applicant’s fundamental rights pending the hearing and determination of the substantive application before this honourable court.” Ejiofor had filed a case at the Federal High Court, Awka, asking the court to restrict the police from arresting him. In the case with suit No: FHC/AWK/CS/133/2019, Ejiofor listed the Police Service Commission, Inspector-General of Police, Commissioner of Police, Area Commander, Oraifite Area Command, Divisional Police Officer, Oraifite Division, the Nigerian Army, Chief of Army Staff, Federal Republic of Nigeria and Attorney-General Federation. Justice Quadri further ordered that all parties involved in the case should maintain status quo while stating that the police should not arrest Ejiofor pending the determination of the case. The case has been adjourned until December 27 for hearing before the vacation judge. In Ejiofor’s statement, he  lamented that after he had agreed with the area commander in charge of Oraifite who led the invasion that would come to the station in connection with communal conflict involving one of his wards, they still went ahead to attack his home. “I was already on my way to the ACP’s office when it occurred to me that my uncle should be carried along in that meeting, since they are familiar with happenings in the village. Not long after leaving my uncle’s house through an unconventional route to the ACP’s office, my phones started ringing, apparently distress calls from my younger brother this time, who informed me that the men of Special Armed Robbery Squad were firing at every living object in the house, including the youths who were working for me. “I was initially shocked at such development but was advised by my uncle to remain calm, as we observed the unfolding development. The very few youths who summoned courage to come out amidst the gunshots, managed to inform the trigger happy officers that I had left the house for the ACP’s office. They had barely delivered this message when four of them were gunned down at the spot, my aged mother was not spared as she could not run as fast as possible for her dear life, she also sustained gunshot injury. All my siblings and particularly my late brother’s wife who was still on the mourning bed were not spared by the invading assassins in Police Uniform.” After the invasion, the Anambra State commissioner of police declared him wanted, accusing of IPOB membership among others. He argued that as a lawyer it was his professional duty to defend any client, even as he queried whether Chief Femi Falana could be said to be a member of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (Shiite) who he is lawyer to. Ejiofor further questioned the true intention of the invasion: a “Assuming without conceding that the true intention of the Police was to arrest me on the basis of the complaint allegedly lodged against me at 11:30am of 2nd December, 2019, is it conventional that the Police investigates allegations before receiving complaint against the purported offender? Because the first visit to my house was between5:30am and 6:00am and subsequent bloody invasion of my premises between the hours of about 10:15am to 10:50am, all took place before the alleged complaint was lodged at 11.30am.” The embattled lawyer added that the Anambra Police commissioner hurriedly declared him “wanted in order to cover their evil tracks on the heinous crime committed in my house.” “I have been reliably informed that the Commissioner of  Police Anambra State, had issued an order to his subordinates to shoot me at sight, and as it stands today, my life is increasingly exposed to possible conspiracy of extinction in the hands of deadly police officers,” he added.