The presidency has accused die-hard critics of President Muhammadu Buhari of doing so because he denied them the ownership of the country’s oil blocks. It also said that their relentless claims that the administration had been hijacked by a certain group of individuals usually referred to as cabal was baseless because that there was nothing usual for the president to have some persons around him. While insisting that every president in Nigeria has had a few allies around him, the presidency explained that such persons were also called “kitchen cabinet” in other climes where they daily make sacrifices in the interest of their nations. In an address at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Press Corps at the weekend, senior special assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Mallam Garba Shehu, he said that a lot of the attacks on the president by the elite due to Buhari’s refusal to give them oil wells. Shehu said: “Every president must have people who advise him. It is not a sin; it is not an offence to have people that you take into confidence. “What is the meaning of cabal? I just googled Thesaurus and among many other definitions, what they are saying is that cabal means ‘conspire, intrigues, mystique, occult, secret’. There is no government in this country that we have had that some people were not accused of being a cabal in that government and it is because every administration, every president must have a secretariat. “Elsewhere, they call it ‘kitchen cabinet’, but in our own country we are being derogatory and we term them the cabal so that it will tarnish their own good standing. “Some of them have no need around government but because this is a country of people, some of them much in a hurry. In fact, for some of our elite, Buhari is a bad man because you cannot go to him and say give me an oil well and he will sign the papers and give you. “So, we understand the game that is playing out and there is always a price, in any case, to pay for that kind of exposure. Even the president himself, the kind of things that are being said of him, if he did not offer himself to serve, some of those things, people would not even have the chance to say them against him. So, we will live with it, we will accept it because it goes with the territory,” he said. The presidential also spoke on efforts by the federal government to regulate the social media. He said: „The social media has become a problem for many families because rights of women and children are being abused. There is a need to protect vulnerable members of the society. There is need to protect minorities whether tribal or religious in our own country. So, it makes sense that you as media stakeholders come around the minister of Information and Culture and formulate the kind of regulations you want so that it is not that there is a top-bottom approach, so that government will not be accused of imposing a regulatory mechanism on the media. The minister is saying come, sit down with me and let us talk about it. “And I was told that the day he called on the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), they walked out on him. If that report is true, I think it is very unfortunate. I think we need to come around him and offer media- driven solutions so that at the end of it, this country will have a vibrant and effective social media communication system. “At the same time, it is the one that does not drive children to addictions and that also protects consumers of media content from harmful invasion either of our privacy or addiction of children to some mercy-less commercialism that is profit-driven and is taking advantage of our exposure to mass communication systems. “I will like to appeal that we give serious considerations to some of these elements and see how the media in the country can work together with the government to find communication solutions to purely communication problems. It is not political, the government has no reason to undermine or weaken the mass media,” he said. Shehu said that “when you realise it, in countries where the mass media are being suppressed, where there is no freedom of expression and information, you find out that the media space tends to decline, it becomes smaller, media houses closed down but the irony of what is happening in the country is that while some civil society groups are crying here that the freedom of expression is being threatened and in any case we know they are shouting because they are looking for donors abroad who will send in American dollars for the protection of hate speech, that basically is a selfish thing. “But in a country where we are expanding the media space, the last time we did, we licensed about 300 radio stations and as I am speaking to you, this administration is processing almost 500 requests for radio stations. The media space cannot be expanded if it is being oppressed. A lot of our colleagues I have seen them, any editor who loses job today or senior journalist, you will see him set up a digital newspaper and they are doing well. Many of them are prospering which tells you that the media is not in any way constrained in carrying out its constitutional duties,” he added.