With only one month to the end of the year 2019, the market capitalisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has risen by N1.312 trillion. The increase occurred between January and November of the outgoing year. The total value of listed companies gained N1.312 trillion to close at N13.033 trillion on November 29 from the year opening of N11.721 trillion. The Nigerian bourse continued to enjoy the listing of MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa as the two companies boosted the capitalisation by N3.23 trillion. However, the year-to-date performance stood at 1.15 per cent loss.  The All-Share Index (ASI) for the period under review went down by 14.09 per cent from 31,430.50 points on December 31, 2018 to close at 27,002.15 on November 29, 2019 as increased volatility and illiquidity continued to trigger persistent downturn. Although, the equities’ market capitalisation during the period under review closed positive due to MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa listing, the market overall performance remained low. Analysts noted that the nation’s stock market was still far from attaining the heights it got to before the global financial crisis in 2008. They are of the view that while the stock market stayed bearish in past 11 months, primary market activities, as well as corporate actions, supported returns for the period. Notably, MTN and Airtel Africa’s massive listing, Access Bank merger with Diamond Bank, the acquisition of Dangote Flour and the divestments in Forte Oil, were some of the major events that shaped performance. However, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recently announced the exclusion of non-bank locals (individuals and corporates) from participation in its Open Market Operations (OMO) at both the primary and secondary markets. This implies that only Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) can participate in OMOs, while others, including non-bank financial institutions, will have to shift focus to Treasury Bills and other investment options. With the development, analysts believed that investors will continue to act on the policy pronouncements in the fiscal space, stressing that with excess liquidity in the overall financial system, and the ripples occurring in the fixed income market, “we could see continued interests in the local equities.” The chief research officer of Investdata Consulting Limited, Ambrose Omodion, said that the country’’s stock market and, indeed, the economy, have over the past 22 months been bearish, besides favouring high yield-sensitive sectors over the real sectors that drive economic growth. He concurred that evidence of this was that national productivity for almost 13 quarters struggled with a slower-than-expected Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate, with undulating movement resulting from geopolitical uncertainties and inconsistent economic policies. Omodion said that the situation had been made worse by the high cost of funds which had limited the private sector’s access to liquidity to boost economic activities for national growth and macroeconomic progress and prosperity. According to him, “everyone in the world today knows that stock markets are leading indicators of what is happening, just as at the same time they foretell what is about to happen and the case of the Nigerian stock market is not different. “It is true that regulation and transparency had improved after the last global financial crisis but low liquidity and low market depth have impacted negatively on the market. “This is because the number of active listed companies had remained low. While a fewer new companies are listed, the old ones are delisting for one reason or the other. More so, shallow knowledge of the rudiments of stock market has led to low patronage and overdependence on foreign investors in the nation’s stock market,” he said. Other analysts at Afrinvest Limited said that “sentiment remains fundamentally weak in the equities’ market, although we have seen renewed interest in stocks with strong fundamentals which has resulted in a three-week gaining streak in November. “We suspect that the restriction of local investors from the ‘juicy’ OMO market perhaps shifted investors’ focus to the equities. The gradual recovery in the economy is slow paced and may not support an overtly bullish expectation in the short-term. Yet, we believe the market has been far compressed and remains attractive for equity investors,” they said.  