A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Jackson Lekan-Ojo has said the wife of the President, Aisha Muhammadu Buhari is critical of her husband’s administration because she wants him to succeed in the interest of Nigerians. Ojo a golden member, International security Association (IWA) Switzerland, who addressed journalists in Abuja spoke against the backdrop of Mrs Buhari’s comments on Thursday in a TV phone-in programme ”Journalists Hangout,” where she lamented that ministers and public officers close to the Presidency were not doing enough to defend the President and the Federal Government on fake news. Reacting Lekan-Ojo said ” Aisha Muhammadu Buhari wants the best for her husband, President Muhammadu Buhari, his government and Nigerians at large. She is a blessing to this country at this critical time.” He added that “at every time the wife of President speaks, it says a lot about how patriotic she is. She most times raises critical issues that border on governance, unity and security. “Contrary to what people think and say about the wife of the President, I think she is a gem. She is critical of her husband because she loves him and wants the best for him. She is not arrogant and she has sympathy for the downtrodden, Ojo noted. “In the past, Nigerians were not pleased with the operations of that office, we have seen First Lady that are interested in power, wealth and overwhelmed by the fame in the office. I think it has been modified by the wife of the President under the present administration. She is changing the face of the Office of the First Lady, a situation that is having a positive impact on the polity. He urged that “every government appointees, elected officials and others in public service should listen to this critical voice. They should take the message and challenges thrown at them by the wife of the President. What she says most times are in the interest of the country. He continued “I have also noticed that there are attempts to silence the wife of the President within and outside the Presidential Villa, such plans should not be allowed to see the light of the day. A developing country like Nigeria needs a critical mind at that level. “All women groups across the country, every reasonable Nigerians and President Muhammadu Buhari should continue to give her the needed support because a critical mind like that of the First Lady will help bring about dividends of democracy to Nigerians as we have witnessed through her Future Assured Foundation and other intervention projects from her office. She is indeed the mother of the nation”.