President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that all the actions of his administration are borne out his concern for Nigeria and her people. He, therefore, reassured the citizens that he would judiciously use the nation’s resources to meet their expectations. Buhari said that he was conscious of his duty as president and expressed the hope that at the end of his stay in office, history would be kind to him. The president stated this in Abuja, yesterday, when a delegation of religious, traditional and political leaders, top civil servants and members of the press from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) visited him at the presidential villa. To the visitors, Buhari said: “You are our eyes and ears; we have to listen to you and I hope you are encouraging your constituencies that this leadership means well and is concerned about them.’’ His media aide, Garba Shehu, who issued a statement on the visit, quoted the president as saying that “2019 is a very successful year for the nation” and thanked Nigerians for believing in him and supporting his administration to take the country to the next level. According to him, ‘‘I swore to hold this office in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and God willing, I will follow the system diligently to the end of my term and I hope history will be kind to me and Nigerians. ‘‘We thank God. It has been a very successful year, relative to the composition of this country, both politically and ethnically,’’ the president told the Abuja residents led by the minister of FCT, Mohammed Bello, during the traditional Christmas Day homage. Buhari pledged that his administration would continue to do its utmost best to utilise national resources to rebuild the country and recounted that the extreme infrastructure deficit inherited by his administration was worsened by the volatility in the oil market and the activities of militants in the Niger Delta region. The president, however, said that in the last four years the federal government had recorded sustainable progress in mobilising resources to rebuild infrastructure across the country. ‘‘This administration sincerely believes that if you get infrastructure right, most Nigerians will mind their own businesses. They may not even care who is in government. But when you deny them infrastructural facilities then there is nothing they can do. ‘‘But I can assure you that I thank Nigerians very much from the bottom of my heart. When I travelled to all the 36 states before the elections, what I personally observed and the number of Nigerians that turned up in every state to see and listen to me, are more than what anybody can pay or force. ‘‘What I saw made me believe that the majority of Nigerians understand and sympathise with me,’’ he said. In his remarks, Bello (FCT minister) said that the Christmas Day homage presented an opportunity for the nation’s capital residents to thank the president for his unwavering support. While acknowledging the support of security agencies in the country, Bello said that FCT had enjoyed relative peace because of their collaboration. He promised that his administration would continue to work hard to make the FCT safe, secure and open to all Nigerians.