20 years ago, when Nigeria gloriously transited to a democratic administration in 1999, efforts were made by pupils and students to save in their heart and minds the names of the newly elected governors of different states, business savvy individuals also made fortunes with the creation of calendars and handbooks that had photos of these pioneer governors. Among these crops of politicians were handsome and cute men like Donald Duke of Cross River and George Akume of Benue States. Akume was so spectacular because he was always decked and adorned in the traditional wears of the Tiv ethnic group, a unique white and black stripe fabrics that distinguishes him from others even in the midst of many. This successful public servant is indeed handsome, with his eyeballs and a trademark beards consciously and conspicuously left beneath his lips. People often speak of the colour of eyes, as if that were of importance, yet his would be beautiful in any shade. From Akume, comes an intensity, an honesty, a gentleness. Perhaps this is what is meant by a gentleman, not one of weakness or trite politeness, but one of great spirit and noble ways. What he was then as governor coupled with his achievements that are still unmatched till this day, and his vibrancy as a Senator are still infinitesimally small to whom he is now as a Minister of the federal Republic of Nigeria. What is beautiful about George Akume, comes from deep within and his good nature and statesmanship endears both young and old to him. As age defying as he is, each year passes and the lines still deepen upon his face, he will be more handsome still, as if his soul shines through his skin. Akume, who is now serving as the Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, is a party man to the core and a loyal ally of President Muhammadu Buhari. He is a firm believer and apostle of change, a democrat, a consistent politician with values that had stood him out. George Akume is an optimist. He believes that President Buhari would lead the country to an enviable height and proudly insists that all his policies are pro-people. According to the minister, most farmers in the country are currently smiling to the banks as a result of border closure by the Federal Government. Akume stated this in Lagos during a press conference to announce the communique of a 4-day stakeholders retreat to develop strategic plan 2019-2023 for his ministry which took place at Ikeja at the weekend. The Minister said, ”President Buhari’s policies are for the good of common Nigerians. Border closure policy is to support Nigerian farmers. The farmers, especially the rice farmers are smiling to bank. The policy will transform their lives and lives of other Nigerians. “In Benue, women has taken over rice milling and selling and they all doing very well,” he said. The minister said the retreat which was attended by more than 200 participants including all relevant stakeholders dealt with issues aimed at providing a compass for the implementation of the mandate and achieving Mr. President June 12 promise of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in ten years. According to him, it was discovered that there is no synergy and cooperation in policy formulation and program implementation amongst the three tiers of government and appropriate climatic change sustainable policy aligned to poverty reduction and employment generation.’’ The minister added, ‘’That Nigeria has not fully keyed into the climate change carbon credit initiative of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change-UNFCC ‘’That Inter-governmental formulation and management of policies, programs and projects is yet to receive adequate attention. That all poverty alleviation programs lack institutional mainstreaming. ‘’That the failure of projects, programs and other government initiatives was attributable to the gap in the monitoring and evaluation system, and ‘’That the gender policy in place is not being implemented appropriately by successive governments which has led to socio-economic inequalities and feminization of poverty.’’ As a way out of the woods, he said it was resolved that there should be a review and harmonization policies on inter-governmental cooperation and collaboration to be implemented with set timelines. Other resolutions are that ‘’The government should realign its climate change policy to stimulate employment generation and wealth creation ‘’The government should take appropriate steps to key into the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change with a view to gaining carbon credit for revenue generation ‘’That all special projects of the federal government should be domiciled with Federal Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs as a Special Purpose Vehicle-SPV for the delivery of efficient service to the people ‘’That there should be established an institutional regulatory framework to mainstream poverty reduction and wealth creation for sustainable development. Akume noted that the stakeholders resolved that “an e-monitoring and evaluation system should be put in place to ensure value for money. George Akume’s 8 years administration came with a development blueprint, “The Benue Advance Plan,1999- 2007.” The synopsis of this philosophical blueprint for development of the state was to identify challenges, potentials for development and underdevelopment through a multi- sectoral approach. The plan was also aimed at breaking the underdevelopment of the state and focus was on housing with the construction of housing estates. This, greatly improved on Benue’s housing challenge for Civil servants. This effort brought about the Judges quarters on Gboko Road, New Assembly Quarters at Nyiman, BIPC Quarters in Nyiman, Owner Occupier Housing estate on Abu King Shuluwa Road as well as other numerous Units in North Bank and other areas of the State. There were clear attestations that Governor George Akume performed creditably in the area of housing and infrastructural development. His efforts also brought about the New G.R.A and Nyiman Layout, township roads in Makurdi, Otukpo , Gboko and Katsina -Ala and also rural feeder roads including the Otukpo Utonkon road, Sankera Ayati road among others and also carried out rural electrification. Efforts were also made towards industrialization with the establishment of a Juice Company and Plastic industry. The administration also placed the health sector at it front burner with the establishment of 8 new general hospitals in 8 local government areas, including Ukwm, Kwande, Makurdi, Tarka among others.” The Akume’s administration also gave priority to the educational sector as evident in projects carried out at the Benue State University, building a standard College of Health Sciences and University Teaching Hospital, as well as interventions in renovation of offices and lecture halls. It was also during his administration that ALGON supported Benue state university with a gigantic auditorium. The administration also carried out Renovation of Primary Schools in the state, giving them a face lift. Schools such as LGEA primary schools in Ukum, Makurdi, Okpokwu among others were renovated and some blocks of class rooms were also built in some schools across the country. In the agricultural sector, George Akume’s administration ensured availability and prompt distribution of fertilizer to farmers in the state and also at Government approved prices. The administration also showed commitment to the issue of workers welfare by enhancing their mobility through distribution of Motorcycles to both state and Local Government workers. In what could be seen as attempts to industrialize the state, Dr Akume introduced and established an elaborate industrial layout which gave a big boost to the industrialization drive in the State, thus reducing the rate of unemployment. Under his Watch, Benue had a fertilizer blending plant, a plastic industry and a Tomato processing Factory in Wannune, Gboko Road. In the area of transportation, the Akume administration made remarkable efforts in positioning Benue Links, the state owned Transport Company. This was demonstrated by the purchase of over 10 new Marco polo buses to boast the company. The Akume administration also upgraded the radio Benue Substation Katsina-ala, established the Benue Television Makurdi, awarded contract for the construction of Makurdi water board among several other projects. Perhaps these achievements of George Akume earned him the award of the best performing governor in the North Central zone among many accolades. Born 27th Dec. 1953, Senator George Akume is an accomplished Administrator, accomplished politician, and a member of the Great Tender Hall of Fame, University of Ibadan. By dint of hardwork and grace, he was the first Governor of Benue State to have completed two terms in office from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007. He was elected governor of Benue State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was then elected to the Senate. Akume was re-elected Senator for Benue North-West in the April 2011 elections, running on the platform of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). He was the Minority Leader of the Senate from June 2011 to June 2015. He hails from Wannune Tarka Council Area of Benue State. He had his Primary Education at the then Native Authority (N.A) Primary School at his birth place (1960 – 66) and the former Government Secondary School, Otobi now Model Science School, Otukpo, Benue State, (1967 – 71) for his Secondary Education. George was at St. Louis College for his Advanced Level (1972), and there after proceeded to the Premier University, the University of Ibadan for his Bachelor of Science Degree in Sociology (1978). He also obtained a Masters Degree in Industrial and Labour Relations (MILR) from the same Department and University (1986). He was at Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON) where he obtained a Certificate in Management (1988). Senator George Akume is happily married and blessed with children.