Months after the closure of Nigerian land borders and ban on the importation and smuggling of rice, a policy that was greeted with mixed feelings, EMAMEH GABRIEL writes that despite several challenges farmers in the country are confronted with, the policy may be yielding positive results as local rice production continues to receive boost Few months ago when the federal government ordered the closure of the nation’s land borders to check smuggling and other illicit activities, among which security was a major concern, there was palpable panic that the policy would lead the country to another round of hunger. The new policy had earlier raised fears as smuggling and importation of rice, a major staple in the country, was severely dealt a blow. The government’s decision was said to have been informed by the threat smuggling had in the past years on the nation’s GDP growth. For instance, the World Markets and Trade Report of the USDA, had earlier this year, reported that “Nigeria imported three million metric tonnes of rice in 2018, which is 400,000 metric tonnes more than the quantity of the product imported in 2017.” This figures alone, when put into the nation’s foreign exchange, has a negative balance of payment. Although the CBN had subsequently debunked the figure, the report however raised a question on government’s commitment to encourage local industries. Local producers, particularly rice farmers, had struggled in the last decades to survive the harsh reality of competing with their foreign counterparts who saw Nigeria as potential market place and dumping ground for produce that were said to have been expired and considered poisonous. To address this, government had few months ago concluded that for the country to realise its production deficit to help grow its industries, it must be ready to implement policies that discourage the importation of products that could be sourced and produced locally. One of the major threats and health concern raised by government also was that over 40 per cent of rice smuggled or imported into the country were reported to be expired produce. The Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) had one time said that Nigerians consuming foreign rice were eating expired products that were only polished and re-bagged. The Customs boss had, on that occasion, urged the security outfit to reach out to Nigerians through the media and make them realise the” deadly” effect of what they were consuming. “We are consuming expired foreign rice and when it causes cancer, we begin to look for who to blame. What they do is polish the rice, re-bag them for unsuspecting consumers. That is what we eat. “We (Nigeria Customs Service) must reach out to Nigerians through the media and make them know the deadly effect of what they are consuming,” he had cautioned.  Fear of the unknown In the opening days of the closure of the country’s land borders, panic ensued across the country. The fear was that rice, which is a major staple for the about 200 million Nigeria population, would be out of reach of the average Nigerian. Most Nigerians were skeptical as to the ability of rice farmers and millers in the country to meet the growing demand of the product, particularly with the yuletide season approaching. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that before now, there was a deliberate policy by the federal government through the Central Bank Anchor Borrowers Programme, undertaken by NIRSAL to encourage local rice production and other farm produce. The purpose was to prepare the country ahead of times like this. According to the Central Bank of Nigeria, “the programme thrust of the Anchor Borrowers Programme is provision of farm inputs in kind and cash (for farm labour) to smallholder farmers to boost production of these commodities, stabilise inputs supply to agro-processors and address the country’s negative balance of payments on food. The new policy had mounted pressure on rice farmers in the country such that they had to double their efforts to meet demands. Farmers had however articulated that as long as the borders remain closed and farmers in the country remain energised through government’s support, there would be no need for panic. “We as a country, have moved beyond meeting the increasing demand for rice, what is left now is for the government to encourage more Nigerians to go into rice farming without being afraid of how to dispose of the commodity, Retson Tedheke, a rice farmer said in an interview. “With the closure of borders, the federal government made it possible and easier for groups like ours to take that lead to get involved and make things happen. We are currently producing about 2, 000 of 25 kg bags of rice in a day and we are moving from that to excess of about 10, 000 bags every day before the end of the first quarter of 2020.’’  Is the new policy working? A careful survey carried out in two weeks have shown that Nigerian rice is currently dominating market stores across the country. A Lagos based major rice dealer and distributor, Mrs Otobor Eunice, told LEADERSHIP Friday that closing the borders has left them with no choice but to turn to Nigeria rice. “To be honest, the demand is encouraging and Nigerians are already getting used to it. This was not so before because our people preferred imported rice. I came to Keffi to get a trailer load of rice for my costumers in Lagos. “In all honesty, there have been drastic improvement in patronage of rice cultivated and processed in Nigeria. Our local industries have really impressed me with the level of quality of rice they produce today,’’ she said, while calling on government to sustain the policy.  Farmers strategies The fear that rice may run out of supply chain in the country may have been abated and despite pricing crisis in some parts of the country, supply have been stable. Investigations by LEADERSHIP Friday have shown that rice farmers in the country have been able to aggregate the product to make up for the gap caused by ban of importation. Currently, there are over 50 local rice stores and markets in the country. From Ga’ate Gold, Ofada Rice, Mama Choice, Mama Pride, Big Bull, Uzer Classic, FarmAlly, Super Champion, Labana, Satan Gray, Osuemegbe and a host of others currently flooding the Nigeria markets. Findings by this newspaper have also shown that the process of packaging is becoming more and more competitive among millers and this has given the product a face lift, which leaves the impression on buyers that they are foreign. “The policy has made our people begin to understand the importance of branding and packaging. They are now looking attractive and good for consumption. Now the local rice is as neat as the foreign that people can even go as far as re-bagging to sell to unsuspected buyers,’’ said Obgeide Peter, a management staff of the Nigeria Farmers Group and Cooperative Society. More also is that rice farmers who produce in commercial quantity are gradually moving from selling out their paddy to milling and processing themselves and going as far as of taking from other farmers across the country. “We are aggregating paddy rice across the country. So, opportunities are created for those who are farming rice, for processors and those who are selling. We have brought in de-stoners with the capacity of de-stoning about three trailer loads of rice in a day, polishers with the capacity of polishing about three trailer loads a day,’’ Tedheke said. “There are also whiteners that will ensure that the rice is clean from all forms of particles without adding chemicals, and we have also brought in colour sorters to separate brown from white and white from black. “All of these upgrades have increased our capacity to about 100 tonnes of rice every day. We are working to get two processing mills with the capacity of 200 tonnes a day. So, in no distant time we will be doing about 300,000 tonnes of rice in a month.’’ Plights of rice farmers and demands from government Although the federal government Anchor Borrowers Programme had to some extent, successfully created economic linkage between smallholder farmers and reputable large-scale processors by increasing agricultural output and significantly improving capacity utilisation of integrated rice mills across the country for beneficiaries of the programme, farmers have however called on the government to look beyond this to make the agro sector more attractive to farmers. “The absence of infrastructure and the availability of loan facilities during the planting and harvesting season to support local production to boost the revenue base of the country as well as to improve the standard of living for the people must be taken as very key. If we support local producers in Nigeria, there is absolutely no way we will not add more to our value process, job creation and making Nigeria a better place for the over 200 million people. “There must be an enabling environment to encourage competition among local producers,’’ said Tedheke, who explained that the farmer from Thailand, India, Pakistan and Singapore, sells his rice lower than what we are selling in Nigeria because the government subsidises it, and so ends up making more money and gets cheap loan also because government policies favour them. “We need those favourable working conditions for our processors to make money. It is good we are no longer importing rice, what is next is to make loan cheaper for farmers of rice and making the environment more conducive by providing power supply. “This farm operates on diesel every day, we spend on the average of N450, 000 to buy diesel every week. We do not need to bear that cost. If we have electricity on the farm and we are spending on the average of N400, 000 in a month, we are okay. ‘‘The point is most of these variables need to be solved so that we can maximise the potentials that are available in the closure of borders. A farmer cannot construct road, provide power, employ labour and make money. More needs to be done to put Nigeria on the path of food security, job sustainability among others. This farm is an eye opener that everything is possible with the potentials we have.”