As the Nigerian stock market enters into the year 2020, coming from a loss position in the outgoing year 2019, analysts expect the year 2020 to provide a more attractive market for investors. OLUSHOLA BELLO writes With the Nigerian stocks market closing 2019 on a negative note with investors recorded losses, stakeholders have predicted the year 2020 will provide a more attractive market for investors. Analysts noted that the capital market will record modest recovery in the year on the basis of a more stable political backdrop, increased capital expenditure, currency stability and slightly stronger economic growth.  Economy, Stock Market In 2019 Coming off a sustained downtrend, the nation’s stock market, a barometer that measures the economy, as at the close of trading on December 20, 2019, ended with a cumulative Year-to-Date (YTD) loss on investments in equities of 15.60 per cent, as the All-Share Index (ASI) floundered for most of 2019. Pre-election activity was tepid, with average daily turnover of N3.6 billion and periods of investor apathy. Despite the straightforward election process, investors failed to return to the equities market with any enthusiasm.  Depth market performance in 2019 Drivers, like the merger between Access Bank and Diamond Bank, the listing of MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa did provide investors with some reason to return to the equities market, but these were opportunistic forays rather than a concerted change in sentiment. Domestically, the top-down environment shifted into a higher gear in the third quarter of 2019, with annual GDP growth accelerating to 2.3 per cent from an upwardly revised 2.1 per cent in the second quarter. This was driven by strengthening momentum in the oil segment of the economy, which expanded at the fastest pace in six-quarters. Hinting at improving private-sector conditions, credit provision remained upbeat in the quarter, with total credit to the private sector growing 7.4 per cent year-to-date.  Factors To Shape Market In 2020 Looking forward, analysts at Vetiva Research expected 2020 to provide a more attractive market for investors, amid a more stable political backdrop, increased capital expenditure, currency stability and slightly stronger economic growth. Also, Cordros Securities noted that recent policy directives from the CBN restricting local non-bank corporates and retail investors from participating in the OMO market will offer some respite to the domestic bourse. The CBN, in 2019 increased banks’ LDR to 60 per cent, and then by another five points to 65 per cent, with a deadline of December 2019. They also noted further that an increased allocation by the Pension Fund Administrators (PFA) towards equities would be a significant catalyst for the market at the start of the year, saying that “We do not expect allocation to be broad-based, however, as fund managers are likely to cherry-pick only stocks with attractive dividend yields.”  Emerging, Frontier markets provide near-term opportunities Nigeria’s market performance compared to other Frontier Market names was poor; Egypt, Turkey and Kenya’s markets have all returned in the double digits so far in 2019. The general sentiment towards Emerging and Frontier Names has been positive, with investors taking advantage of the stronger yield environment of some of these markets. Looking forward, Vertiva Research said foreign investor participation in Emerging and Frontier markets like Nigeria is likely to increase even across equities, although the bulk of inflows will generally be to the Fixed Income space, amid dovish policy stances from developed economies and weaker global prospects. They however stated that, Nigeria is unlikely to be the main destination for investors, as comparable frontier markets currently present more attractive prospects, calling on government to pacify foreign investors and assure them of Nigeria’s viability as an investment destination, foreign investor interest in the general equities space could remain limited outside of bellwethers. Companies Performance 2019 has been a mixed bag for company earnings, with the Banking sector, the best performers, recording 12 per cent year-on-year profits growth and posting encouraging results. However, other sectors such as Consumer Goods and downstream Oil & Gas were largely unimpressive, while increased competition in the Industrial Goods sector gave little indication to investors of the short-term growth trajectory. Vertiva Research expected “Investors to remain subdued in their reactions to earnings releases in the New Year, although we foresee a more positive reaction year-on-year. Savvy investors are likely to take positions in anticipation of stronger performances, especially in the banking space; however, the overall effect on market performance may be slight.”  Primary Market Activities In 2020 Primary activity dwindles in bearish market in 2019, the NSE took further steps to demutualise the exchange, setting up the possibility of listing the company. However, this has been in progress since 2016. Other steps to deepen the market, through further listings and regulatory incentives could serve to renew interest in the Nigerian equities market. The listing of MTN Nigeria briefly drove the market into positive territory in May 2019, proving the attractiveness of certain companies and industries. Further representation of the telecoms sector or other frontier sectors underrepresented on the exchange could boost interest in the equities market. However, volatile policy direction and mild economic growth could stifle any diversification progress. Meanwhile, 2019 saw a significant decline in rights issues, with the total raised from the capital market by existing companies reaching N13 billion, compared to over N100 billion in 2018, including Lafarge Africa issue which opened in December 2018 and closed in January 2019. Analysts expected this trend to continue in 2020, with the capital restructuring in the insurance sector likely to induce more capital raising in 2020.  Analysts view Chief operating officer of Investdata Consulting Limited, Ambrose Omodion said predictions of market rebound in 2020 are due to improved corporate performance of listed firms especially in the areas of transparency and dividend payout. He noted that most of the insurance firms that could not pay dividend over the years have bounced back. “People are optimistic on 2020 rebound because the companies are cheap with high level of transparency in their activities,” he said. “Their fundamentals are becoming stronger. With the budget signed into law, we would see a stable result by third quarter against the full year 2019 which would ultimately spur market rebound. “Again, we will have stable economy for the next three years from 2019 and no election activity again that may drag the market down. However, if government fails to initiate new reforms to drive economic growth, we may not see meaningful and sustainable growth.” Head, Securities Dealing Desk, Golden Securities Limited, Mr Gbolaham Bello said that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) could consider some monetary policy easing with possibility of cuts in Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) to stimulate lending to the real sector of the economy as Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) for Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) could remain elevated. He pointed out that the CBN development finance initiative to specific sectors of the economy is likely to increase significantly with possible improvement in the GDP growth rate which may continue on the upward trajectory, albeit marginally as aggregate domestic demand is likely to be sustained. Bello also stated that domestic borrowing may remain lower and there might be continuous increase in appetite for international borrowing by the Nigerian government to address fiscal deficit through issuance of more Eurobonds with attendant demand for a premium on the coupon, saying “All eyes will remain on the Investors and Exporters foreign exchange (I & E FX) window and CBN would continue to rely on the FX reserves to stabilise the value of the Naira. “Continued restriction of domestic investors participation in OMO market could likely be sustained and this might lead to increased investment in the corporate debt market.” For the equities market in 2020, there is a possibility of gradual increase in demand for fundamentally sound stocks on the bourse from FPIs and domestic investors on the strength of a more stable political environment and improved economic indices.