Recently the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) alongside, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) and the chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC) Ad Hoc Committee on Crude Oil Theft, Prevention and Control, Mr Godwin Obaseki, raise the alarm over the economic implication of pipeline vandalism. FESTUS OKOROMADU writes on the urgent need for stakeholders to collaborate to put an end to the ugly incident Last week, precisely, December 10, 2019, Nigeria’s transparency advocate, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) organised a high-level policy dialogue on “Combating Oil Theft In Nigeria.” The programme which took place inside the Niger Hall, Transcorp Hilton, Maitama, Abuja turned out to be a platform for some mind bugging revelation. The dialogue, according to NEITI was convened to discuss and deepen the findings of a study it conducted on crude theft in Nigeria between 2009 and 2018. The report, NEITI said apart from revealing that the country lost $41.9b in 10 years, it underlined the security, environmental, enforcement and developmental dimensions of this lingering menace of oil theft which the brain child is pipeline vandalism in the country. Inside the Policy Brief titled “Stemming the Increasing Cost of Oil Theft to Nigeria,” NEITI alerted the nation that crude oil and refined product worth $41.9 billion were stolen from Nigeria during the period covered. A breakdown shows that $38.5 billion was lost on crude theft alone, $1.56 billion on domestic crude and another $1.8 billion on refined petroleum products between 2009 and 2018. The NEITI report further disclosed that Nigeria loses an average of $11 million daily which translates to $349 million in a month and about $4.2 billion annually to crude and product losses arising from stealing, process lapses and pipeline vandalism.  Direct Economic Implications Doing a comparative analysis of the size and implication of the losses to the country’s current dwindling revenue profile, NEITI renewed its appeal to the government to curb oil theft to reduce budget deficits and external borrowing. The transparency agency stated that the value of crude oil and allied products so far lost are equal to the size of Nigeria’s entire foreign reserves. “Stemming this haemorrhage and leakages should be an urgent priority for Nigeria at a time of dwindling revenues and increasing needs”, the report stressed. The report also showed that what the country lost in 20 months in fiscal terms is “Enough to finance the proposed budget deficit for 2020; in 15 months to cover total proposed borrowing or increase capital budget by 100 per cent and in five months to cover pensions, gratuities and retirees’ benefits for 2020”.  Other Perspectives Edo State Governor and chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC) Ad Hoc Committee on Crude Oil Theft, Prevention and Control, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who was the guest speaker at the event also confirmed the inherent danger the trend is posing to the national economy. According to him, his committee found that in the first six months (January to June) of this year (2019), 22 million barrels of oil valued at $1.35 billion was lost to thieves through pipelines vandalism. He therefore stressed the need to institute a proper governance structure for pipeline security in the Industry. Gov Obaseki called on the Nigerian Intelligence Agency (NIA) to work with the NNPC in identifying possible international markets and destinations of stolen Nigerian crude oil. He emphasised that the industry must end the prevailing incentives that make it possible for crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism to flourish. On his part, the Group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari said the high spate oil theft in the country is a threat to national economy given the critical role revenues from the oil and gas sector play in the country. Kyari who was represented at the event by the chief operating officer, Upstream, Mr Roland Ewubare disclosed that between 2001 and 2019, NNPC recorded 45,374 breeches on its pipelines. “NNPC as a player in the downstream sector has felt direct brunt of the attacks on our facilities and assets,” he said. “Between 2001 and 2019, we recorded a total of 45,347 pipeline breaks and breeches on our downstream pipeline network. If you do the math it comes to about an average of seven incidences on a daily basis.”  The Bigger Threat On Downstream Sector Prior to the Abuja gathering initiated by NEITI, Baruwa, a community in Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos State, on 5th December, 2019 appeared once again on the front pages of National newspapers for the wrong reason. The community which hosts the System 2B Pipeline Network of NNPC recorded a fire incident on the pipeline. The incident is the second in a space of two months and is traceable to the operations of pipeline vandals and thefts. According to NNPC, the line in question serves as an invaluable corridor for seamless supply of petroleum products. Although the fire incident of 5 December, 2019 was immediately extinguished within 24 hours and the affected line subsequently restored, the declaration of Engr Yemi Adetunji, chief operating officer, Downstream of the NNPC, that insistent vandalism of the pipeline was one ugly episode which must not be allowed to fester, is one that cannot be ignored. Engr Adetunji who led a team of critical stakeholders to the site of the oil-pipeline fire in Baruwa Community, said it had become imperative for players and stakeholders in the industry to come on board with the corporation in its effort to stamp out the ugly menace. He noted that last year there was a fire outbreak in the same Baruwa community and this year two incidences were reported in November and December. The COO, however, assured that the Baruwa pipeline attacks would not affect the current seamless supply and distribution of petroleum products nationwide, adding that the corporation had emplaced a reliable product supply mechanism to handle such situations. Unfortunately, while the Baruwa community fire incident is a clear example of the danger posed by pipeline vandalism to both the local community in terms of environmental hazard and economic development, this is only one of such occurrences across the nation.  Seeking A Wholistic Solution It is interesting to note that stakeholders at the NEITI meeting expressed concerns over the current dwindling revenues, stressing that paying priority attention to curb oil theft vis-a-vis pipeline vandalism in the country’s oil and gas industry has become both necessary and urgent to expand revenue generation. For Gov Obaseki, the time has come to institute a proper governance structure for pipeline security in the industry. He therefore called on the Nigerian Intelligence Agency (NIA) to work with the NNPC in identifying possible international markets and destinations of stolen Nigerian crude oil. He stressed that the industry must end the prevailing incentives that make it possible for crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism to flourish. The NNPC boss on his part stated that the challenges are not insurmountable, but called for effective framework of collaboration and partnership between governments and communities. He added that the security agencies and the local community must rise up to the challenge and secure oil pipeline facilities which he described as critical national assets. Kyari emphasised the fact that operators have tried to solve the problem by awarding surveillance contracts to communities, and also by deploying technologies to check the problem.  NNPC, Baruwa Community, Industry Stakeholders Approach But in what seem to be more pragmatic way of addressing the challenge, the NNPC recently announced an all stakeholders’ involved strategy to curbing the Baruwa pipeline vandalism. A statement issued by the Corporation spokesman, Mr Samson Makoji, said NNPC has forged a formidable alliance with some key stakeholders in the Downstream Sector of the Petroleum Industry with a view to stamping out the ugly incidences of oil pipeline vandalism while ultimately sustaining the prevailing sanity in the supply and distribution of Petroleum Products across the country. The alliance, which seem to focus specifically on the Baruwa community has National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), Petroleum Tanker Drivers branch of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), Peace Estate Development Association, the Bale of Baruwa Community, Alhaji Khalid Baruwa, and NNPC as members. The alliance was formed when Engr Yemi Adetunji, chief operating officer, Downstream of the NNPC, led a team of critical stakeholders to the site of a recent oil-pipeline fire in Baruwa Community, Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos. Speaking during the visit, Engr Adetunji said it had become imperative for players and stakeholders in the Industry to come on board with the corporation in its effort to stamp out the ugly menace. He charged security agencies and the local community to rise up to the challenge and secure oil pipeline facilities which he described as critical national assets. Commenting on the new alliance, Mr Aloga Ogbogo, the executive secretary, NARTO said that the protection of oil pipeline infrastructure should be the responsibility of every well-meaning Nigerian. Similarly, Comrade Salmon Oladiti, National chairman of Petroleum Tanker Drivers affirmed the commitment of his members to work with NNPC to combat the activities of oil thieves and pipeline hackers. He said PTD prohibited its members from partaking in the illicit transport of stolen products because it views it as an act of economic sabotage. The chairman of Peace Estate Development Association, Engr Omojowo Adedeji, said that the entire residents of the estate, which borders the scene of incessant attacks, fully aligned with the renewed drive by the NNPC to stamp out the illicit trade in stolen oil within and around the community. Alhaji Khalid Baruwa, the Bale of Baruwa Community also identified with the push by the corporation to tackle the issue headlong. He stressed the need to fortify surveillance around the community with clear demarcation of pipeline Right-of-Way.  Alternatives Views Meanwhile, other stakeholders has advocated for review of the current containment strategies which they argued are responsible for the nefarious act of oil theft and pipeline vandalism. These includes: inadequate legal sanctions to serve as a deterrent, stringent laws, deployment of technology designed to swiftly detect, localize and cut off flows to specific pipelines as soon as leakages occur. One cannot but agree with the NEITI policy brief remarked that the impact and implication of oil spills on the environment is monumental, degrades the environment and negatively affects the livelihoods of host communities. This is why all hands must be on deck to curb the menace of this dangerous trend that is posing serious threat to the nation’s economy. On a final note, it is imperative to re-echo the executive secretary, NARTO statement that the protection of oil pipeline infrastructure should be the responsibility of every well-meaning Nigerian.  