On a daily basis, almost every news outlet in Nigeria shows the image of one particular confident and mysterious woman or news of her Ministry. The images shows a poised woman conservatively and religiously dressed in the traditional Hausa/Fulani attire, her gaze steady, her face soft and her demeanor determined. It is Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, the youngest Minister in President Muhammadu Buhari’s Next Level Government and the first female Minister to emerge from Zamfara State. For those who have followed her trajectory, they know that Hajiya Sadiya is a political insider who toiled from the very bottom of the political hierarchy to rise as one of the most successful female politicians to come out of Northern Nigeria. She is a brilliant woman who has struggled to pave her own way to success, never relying on the aid of others and has eventually managed to capture the world’s imagination. She has been able to capture that imagination by being the most talked about member of the Executive, one of the hardest working African women in government, the face of humanity, while still maintaining a cloak of mystery. She has been an active participant in the movement that brought President Muhammadu Buhari to government for over 17 years, emerging as a principled manager and a resolute diplomat. For those who are still unaware of what she has contributed to this administration, perhaps a quick look at her resume would reveal that, at the time that President Muhammadu Buhari came into power in 2015, there was ‘not one’ female politician that was  more qualified, had been loyal, deserved and earned a place in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari more than Hajiya Sadiya… Not one! For me, the label of Person of the Year is not only about people with institutional power, it is also about who affected the news and public lives. Hajiya Sadiya has managed to do just that. Apart from being given the humungous task of setting up a fresh new Ministry and having to deal with the most sensitive function of any of the Ministries, since her work deals directly with desperate and needy Nigerian masses, she faced significant national challenges since becoming Minister; challenges with consequences far beyond her calling. It’s easy to take the role of leadership in Nigeria for a novelty and for granted, until one puts themselves in the shoes of Hajiya Sadiya with the challenges and hurdles she has been confronted with since becoming Minister. Every barrier this woman has been confronted with, she has walked through with poise, integrity and confidence that the Almighty is in control. When one looks at the strides she has made in the last several months since The Almighty lumbered her with her current responsibilities, her quest for stability, performance, peace and openness is all the more compelling. Since taking the mantle of leadership as the humanitarian face of the government, never once has this one woman wavered. She has remained focused even in the face of cruel and orchestrated propaganda designed to soil the innocent relationship between a father and a daughter, a boss and a subordinate by using fake news, cropped pictures and all manners of mischief. Hajiya Sadiya remained professional and focused, choosing not to take the bait, choosing not to issue even a statement. Not once did she blink. Not once did she let nonsense, wickedness and fake news affect her job. Not once did she falter and Allah, in His Infinite Mercy, saw her through. More than anything, that incident just shows how much it is still a struggle for women who take up leadership positions, where they are vulnerable to vilification, accusation, intimidation and a certain manner of blackmail just for daring to reach for the reigns of accomplishment. Even in the Twenty-First Century, women can still be falsely labeled and hounded as they were in the Salem Witch Hunt. It seems that with this particular Amazon, the fact that she is heading one of the broadest and most influential government platforms seems to make her fair game. Ultimately, as Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya is doing her job; her very influential job, in the most structured and excellent way she knows. And it seems likely that, as she succeeds in her role, this will open more opportunities for females to participate in highest tier of government. Hajiya Sadiya is paving more way for Women in Nigeria, especially in the Northern part of the country. As the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya is tasked to provide solutions to the plight of millions of Internally Displaced Persons, as well as coordinate humanitarian affairs and social development in the country. Her ministry is supervising five mega budget agencies, among which is the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), which has been transferred right under her Ministry directly by the President himself! “On a personal note, I have known Sadiya for a very long time. I have known her in a political, professional, academic and personal capacity. Politically; Sadiya has thoroughly earned her stripes by being a loyal and an active member of President Buhari’s political movement for over 17 years, for being the first female to contest for the House of Representatives in Zamfara State, for being an effective Party Treasurer in two major opposition parties (In APC, she was the highest ranking Northern figure of the party), for participating in significant party committees in the run up to the 2015 and 2019 elections and for so many other vital political roles that she played. Academically; Sadiya is one of the most intelligent people I know with Three Solid from Ahmadu Bello University, which she earned with high marks. And she is a person who continually seeks for knowledge and reads to further educate herself. Professionally; Sadiya has been a successful businesswoman, spent some time in the Civil Service, was a star employee in a private Business and served well as the Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI). She has always been diverse and never been afraid of hard work. Personally; I have always known Sadiya to be God fearing, kind, serious, honest, professional, generous, principled, good, courageous, determined, wise and extremely passionate. As a mother, she is second to none, even to the children of her extended family and friends. As a friend she is second to none. And I can unequivocally say that she is a woman that has always protected her virtue as a woman fiercely, ferociously and religiously. …FOR BEING THE FACE OF HUMANITY, FOR STANDING STRONG IN THE FACE OF ADVERSITY, FOR BEING THE HARDEST WORKING MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE, FOR EMERGING AS A ROLE MODEL FOR WOMEN, FOR AFFECTING NEWS AND PUBLIC LIFE, FOR BEING THE SUCCESS STORY EVERYONE WANTS TO HEAR, FOR PAVING THE WAY FOR OTHER WOMEN, ’HAJIYA SADIYA UMAR FAROUQ’ IS MY PERSON OF THE YEAR, 2019 Nigerian  Of The Year BUSOLA DAKOLO Earlier on in the year, Busola Dakolo gave an interview in which she spoke about being defiled as a teenager by her pastor, the celebrity flamboyant Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, founder and head pastor of COZA. Her testimony opened the conversation about Nigeria’s rape culture in a way that previous allegations had not before. I deal with abused women in my line of work and I have developed the instinct to decipher the signs of abuse. And, wherever she is, I want Busola to know that “…I thank you and I BELIEVE YOU!” …FOR BEING BRAVE, RIGHTEOUS, COURAGEOUS, STUNNING, INSPIRING, RESILIANT, FEARLESS; FOR HAVING A STRONG HEART AND A BEAUTIFUL SOUL; FOR HAVING THE COURAGE TO SPEAK OUT, ‘BUSOLA DAKOLO’ IS MY NIGERIAN OF 2019.’ Non Nigerian Of The Year GRETA THUNBERG In the 16 months since she first spoke out about climate change and warned the world of its dangers, Greta Thunberg has brought the very reality of the hazard we are causing to our consciousness. Out there, the entire natural world seems to amplify her small voice. A voice that has now not only become loud but more significant than a thousand armies and a million reigns. This young lady truly h as captured the imagination for an extremely good cause, which will outlive every single one of us and reverberate throughout eternity. …FOR HER SELFLESS ABILITY TO CHANGE AND INSPIRE THE WORLD, MAKE PEOPLE BELIEVE AND SHOW US SACRIFICE AND GREATNESS AT ITS BEST, ‘GRETA THUNBERG’IS MY NON-NIGERIAN OF 2019.’