The Nigerian textile industry is set for revival following the release of two high yielding genetically modified (GM) cotton species known as BT cotton which has been proven to be resistant to pests and insects on the farm. It was made available to cotton farmers for the 2019 planting season, BODE GBADEBO reports. Sometime in November, 2018, the federal government launched the newly released MAHYCO C 567 BG 11 and MAHYCO C 571 BG11 varieties of transgenic hybrid cotton seeds in order to improve agricultural production as well revive the nation’s comatose textile industry. At the launch of the seeds, minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya  Onu, said the introduction of the new cotton seeds would boost the economy by giving birth to more Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) in the production of cotton seedlings and its by-products. Onu also stated that the new cotton seedlings are better heat-resistant varieties, hence will result in higher yield for cotton farmers who will in turn, supply enough raw materials to the nation’s textile mills. LEADERSHIP Friday also recall that the permanent secretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Bako Nabasu, also promised at the occasion in 2018, that the hybrid cotton seeds will be made available and affordable to farmers by the federal government. However, a little over a year now since the unveiling of the MAHYCO C 567 BG 11 and MAHYCO C 571 BG11 varieties to the Nigerian farmers, findings show that cotton farmers especially those in the agrarian North-west geo-political zone of the country, have reaped bumper harvests and are still bountifully harvesting cotton. A visit to Rugan Naali village in Tsafe local government area of Zamfara State, provided an opportunity to witness the ongoing harvest of cotton by farmers in the area, which is also a pointer to what is taking place simultaneously across the state and beyond. The producer of the new cotton seeds, Mahyco Cotton Hybrid Bollgard 2, through its market development officer in Zamfara State, Mr Yusuf Hamza, last week, conducted a mega field day at Rugan Naali village to evaluate the yield of the new cotton seeds at the 2019 planting season. It was learnt that the field day was conducted at the farms of one Aliyu Salisu, who planted Mahyco 567 BG2 and Maharazu Abdullahi, who planted Mahyco 571 BG2 varieties and also witnessed by numerous farmers from across the state. In a chat, the Mahyco official, Hamza, explained that after a yield and economic importance evaluations on the farms, both varieties proved significantly different in term of yields compared to the old or local varieties of cotton seeds. Hamza advised that: “The farmers should follow the agronomic practice of cross-ploughing twice. Time of sowing is mid-June, sowing spacing and seed rate of 4kg/ha and plant only two seeds per hill.” He added that Mahyco Hybrid Bollgard 2 provides built-in protection to cotton crop against bollworm attack and no adverse effects on beneficial insects and non-target organisms including humans. The event also had in attendance, officials of Zamfara State Agricultural Supply Company (ZASCO), other stakeholders in the cotton value chain, politicians and traditional rulers. They called for a tripartite collaboration among the federal, state governments and Mahyco, in order to provide adequate Hybrid seeds to Zamfara cotton farmers. In an interview with the chairman/CEO of a ginnery company in Gusau, Sani Dahiru, he said the new hybrid cotton seeds, which were distributed to farmers by Mahyco, are good and more-yielding seeds over old local seed they were used to after trial. “They are pest-resistant and their cultivation has reduced workload of farmers and cost of procuring pesticides,” Dahiru noted. He added that, he hopes the new seeds will be produced in mass so that cotton farming will be revived as it was in the olden days as desired by the federal government. Dahiru further revealed that, the federal government had provided loans to about 100,000 cotton farmers in the area in order to cultivate at least one hectare of farmland in the 2019 farming season. “They have assured us that by next year, 300,000 cotton farmers will benefit from the loan which is aimed at enhancing cotton farming on one hand and on the other hand to revive ginneries and textiles in the country,” he added. An elated 70-year-old farmer, Alhassan, who took LEADERSHIP Friday around his farm said: “Yusuf (the Mahyco official) brought goodies to our land. We are happy and we appreciate his employers. He brought new cotton seeds I have never seen since I was born.” He therefore made a passionate plea that they should be availed the new seeds for the next farming season and they will be ready to buy the seeds at any cost given its high and unprecedented yield. Also, on his part, Yahaya Muhammed Bilbis, explained that farmers had previously abandoned cotton farming due to poor yield but with the new cotton initiative, things have changed for good. “With what we are witnessing now, we will definitely return to full-scale cotton farming. This year, we harvested bountifully even though we were afraid and we planted little seeds, but next year, we will fully embrace cotton farming,” Bilbis said. Meanwhile, speaking on the new hybrid cotton seeds a couple of days ago at another field day in Sheda area of Abuja, the director-general of National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC), Dr Philip Ojo, said the two cotton varieties are key for the revitalisation of the nation’s textile industry. He said science has become pertinent to advancing agricultural productivity because the old ways of farming are becoming almost unproductive, hence, the need to improve agricultural productivity became inevitable. “Today, we are gathered to showcase the performance of the recently released BT cotton varieties that can enhance our nation’s agricultural productivity and revive our cotton, garment and textile sub-sector, which is in line with Mr President’s objective to bring back the lost glory of the textile industry. “To achieve the objectives of Mr President alongside the exponential rise in world population, innovation and technology create a platform for increased agricultural productivity which will in turn, address food security and combat increasing hunger and malnourishment of people around the world. “The potential for economic growth arising from the cultivation of genetically engineered crops in Nigeria is high with increasing access to food, good health and high productivity. This will also attract foreign investments and earnings from modern biotechnology leading to wealth creation,” Ojo said. He added that the new cotton varieties are cost-effective for farmers, as it requires less use of chemicals and water, reduced crop loss and increased yield per hectare and would create millions of jobs for the teeming youths. “These technologies we demonstrate today through the BT cotton increases farmers revenue by reducing production cost through the use of fewer chemicals and water, reduction in crop losses while achieving consistent higher productivity per hectare, with the potential of taking many out of poverty through economic gains gotten from increased agricultural productivity. “The outcome of this development will result in the creation of millions of jobs as well as ensure economic prosperity for the country. This lofty dream cannot be achieved without a viable cottonseed system in place that will meet the demand for seed cotton and its associated products. “With the potentials and environmental endowment we have as a country, the adoption and promotion of this agricultural innovation through the Bt cotton technology gives us as an advantage to emerge a d become global exporters of cotton and its associated products,” he noted. Also speaking at the Sheda field day, the national of president of the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN), Mr Anibe Achimugu, expressed delight over the performance of the new cotton varieties. He noted that cotton is the bedrock of the textile industry and expressed hope that cotton farmers would be encouraged with the performance of the new cotton seed varieties. “We are seeing physically all that we have been reading about cotton planting seed, and I know that experiments and trials were done through the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) and with farmers across the nation. “And I tell you that what you are seeing here is a taste of better days and times to come for cotton farmers. Of course, the bedrock of the cotton, textile and garment sector of Nigeria is cotton farming and we are praying that farmers would be encouraged with the yield that you can see and of course, the quality of the cotton would encourage the textile industry the spinners, even the ginners to be able to sustain the businesses. “The work that has been done and what am sure they are going to speak to us about is something that I believe would impact positively on Nigeria, we have the potential to overtake the production of cotton in West Africa even in Africa in general. “This year, am happy to announce that 90,000 farmers were able to farm cotton under the Anchor Borrowers Programme of the Central Bank of Nigeria, and unfortunately we had to bring in seed from outside the country, but with what we are seeing here today and the work we know that IAR will also do along with the Seed Council, we believe that we will now have in-country seed production that will give us the kind of quality that we seeking and will put us in the cotton production map of the world,” Achimugu added. Meanwhile, the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA) had in June, 2018 said it approved the commencement of on-station and on-farm trial of the cotton species since 2016, and assured Nigerians that the cotton species have been certified to be environmentally friendly. It is now left to be seen if the federal government will bring back the textile industry in the coming years as promised since the new cotton farming and its bumper harvest are set to continue in the second farming year of 2020 farming season. However, the preponderance of views sought by LEADERSHIP Friday opines that no government will abandon an initiative that will create millions of jobs for the people.