The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged Nigerians to use the Christmas period to rededicate themselves to exhibiting the virtues of love, forgiveness and selfless service to others and the nation at large. The party, while saluting Nigerians on the occasion of this year’s Christmas and Yuletide celebrations, said though many Nigerians are hurting and are not able to celebrate Christmas and yuletide the way they use to do in the past due to the biting economic hardship of the last five years, they must keep hope alive by being one another’s keeper, particularly at a time like this. A statement by PDP national spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said “Our party is deeply disturbed that most Nigerians are celebrating the season under serious economic stress; many did not travel to celebrate with their loved ones because of pervading economic deprivations, insecurity and sorry state of our highways; many have become despondent, they have lost confidence in those who manage the affairs of our nation at the center and it appears that there is no hope in sight. “However, in the midst of these challenges, Christmas offers a great lesson that all hope is not lost for us as a people and a nation. “The birth of Jesus Christ, at the manger, assures us that God has not given up on us; that no matter how long darkness, with its attendant oppression, economic repression, hunger, violence, abuse of rights and corruption in high places, may appear to endure, light will surely come to our nation as exemplified in the birth of the Savour into the sinful world.” The party therefore urged Nigerians to remain united, share in love with one another and bring brotherly succor to those who lack, so that all will partake in the joy of this celebration. The PDP however tasked those at the helm of affairs of the nation to use the period for serious introspection and show concern to the people by being remorseful, reviewing all harsh and anti-people policies, focus of governance and curtail their excesses so that Nigerians can benefit from our national God-given resources. The party prayed for the stability and prosperity of the nation and wished all Nigerians a blissful Christmas and yuletide celebrations. Meanwhile, the national chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus charged Nigerians to see the birth of Jesus Christ the savior of mankind  as energizer to resist evil and injustice in our land. Secondus said that faith teaches us that Christ came to save us but we must do the will of his father in heaven to enjoy the benefit. Secondus said in a Christmas message to Nigerians that they should use this period to seek God ‘s face so he can save this country from the hands of evil ones who are insensitive to the plight of the suffering masses. In a statement from his media office signed by media Adviser Ike Abonyi,  Secondus noted that the political and economic retrogression currently being faced by this country can only be stemmed by the master Jesus whose birth at Christmas brought hope to humanity. “A Yuletide occasion like Christmas provides ample opportunity for us to seek the messiah to meet us at the point of our  needs and desires. He said that the worrisome state of the nation could have been averted if people who govern have the fear of God in them.” The national chairman then noted that as Christmas marks the birthday anniversary of our lord and savor, Jesus Christ, there is no better time than now to seek God’s intervention for  a rescuer who would save this country. “The indignation across the land says it all that the  people are sad and disillusioned, this is a fact whether they believe it or not, let us therefore use this period to pray for a peaceful country where leaders fear God and play by the rules. “Love for one another is the real reason for this season and Christians should do nothing  but show love to all Nigerians irrespective of tribe and religion by building  on those things that unite rather than what divides us.”