Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has expressed shock over the death of his former Presidential Adviser on Women Affairs, Chief (Mrs) Titilayo Ajanaku who passed away on Thursday at the age of 76. Obasanjo in a letter of condolence personally signed by him to the head of the Ajanaku family, described the late first female chairman of Abeokuta Local Government of Ogun state as a woman of great substance whose “commitment to women affairs development was exemplary and worthy of emulation”. Obasanjo said the deceased was a woman who would do everything in her capacity to uplift, improve and advance the cause of women, In a statement made available to journalists in Abeokuta, the state capital by his Media Assistant, Kehinde Akinyemi, the former president eulogised the deceased and particularly recalled how the late erudite Nursing professional joined other Nigerians to visit him in 1998 and persuaded him to contest the 1999 Presidential election. The front line politician has been ill for years before she lost the battle to death. Her death of was however, confirmed by her son in a telephone chat with the former President early hours of Thursday. Until her death, late Mrs. Ajanaku, one of the founding members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun state was the Otun Iyalode of Egbaland and former Chairman of old Abeokuta Local Government, having been the pioneer female elected Council boss in the state. “I remember vividly one of my memorable encounters with Chief (Mrs.) Titi Ajanaku, when she accompanied a group of politicians led by Chief S. M. Afolabi of blessed memory to my Abeokuta residence to persuade me to contest as President of Nigeria. “It was partly their persuasion and that of other groups alike that later yielded my final submission to contest for the office of the President of Nigeria. “In her lifetime, Chief (Mrs.) Ajanaku had a genuine desire to contribute her quota to building a better society through advocacy for fundamental human rights and service to humanity. She was an activist dedicated to the cause of protecting the rights of women within the context of culture, policy and law.  An advocate of gender balance, she remained mindful of those fundamental responsibilities of women which remain critical to family life and family stability. “All of these culminated in my appointing her as my Special Adviser on Women Affairs during my administration as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and she creditably acquitted herself in every assignment given to her. “Indeed, shortly after her appointment, it was easy to recognize her notable qualities of work ethic and commitment to public service.  She bore the responsibility of proving her mettle with the consciousness that her success would create opportunities for other women. “As an exemplary patriot, her rare courage and contributions laid a solid foundation for Ogun state and for Nigerian women to take their rightful position in our nation’s polity. To women, she occupied a special place as a mother, role model and source of inspiration, a redoubtable champion and defender of womens rights.” In his own condolence message to the family, governor Abiodun said the death of Mrs Ajanakuhas created a vacuum which would be difficult for the state to fill. The governor declared that the state and his administration in particular, would miss late Mrs. Ajanaku’s services, wise counselling and advice. “Mama Ajanaku as her name implies in Yorubaland, treaded were even men feared to tread. In politics of Ogun State and even Nigeria, she was a colossus, being the first woman in Nigeria to be elected a local government chairman and a founding member of the People’s Democratic Party. “We will miss her particularly now that all hands are needed to build our future together. Though she is no more, we are happy that she lived an impactful life, a life of service to God and humanity”, Abiodun said. Also, in a statement issued yesterday in Abeokuta, the state chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) described Mrs. Ajanaku’s death as a “painful exit of one of the illustrious daughters” of the state. In the statement signed by the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Ambassador Tunde Oladunjoye, APC declared that Ogun state has “indeed, lost a political Amazon, a benevolently community leader and a champion of women’s right”. “As one of the pillars of the People’s Democratic Movement (PDM), a political organisation founded and nurtured by late Alhaji Sheu Musa Yar’dua, Mama Titi Ajanaku served as a source of inspiration and beacon of hope to many people, especially women in politics”.