The Kebbi State Government through the ministry of Agriculture has warned women and youths cooperative groups who have benefitted from the recent distribution of agricultural equipments by the state government not to divert or sell such inputs. The Permanent Secretary, Kebbi State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Alhaji Lawal Muhammad made the warning in a press briefing in Birnin Kebbi. He said it has come to the notice of the ministry that soon after the government distributed the agricultural equipments some days ago , some unscrupulous farmers with connivance with some middlemen were planning to either divert or sell the agricultural equipments given to them by government. ” 5 days ago ,the governor of Kebbi State, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has launched the distribution of power tillers, rippers and threshers to farmers.
“The aim and objectives of this is for the beneficiaries of those machineries to serve as service providers within the locality at which those machines were assigned. ” So as to help the farmers to reduce the cost of production which is almost our perculiar problem in Kebbi State in terms of production “, he said He opined that to the dismay of the ministry, some of the beneficiaries were planning to sell the machines or divert it for another use. He warned that the ministry would revoke the allocation of anybody caught in such illegality and punitive action taken against him. “So anybody who make a mistake of loosing that machine will pay the total cost of that machine at once, no going back on that, anybody who is not interesting in the machine should return it back to the ministry ‘. According to him also , a committee has been constituted by the ministry involving local government officials who submitted the list of the beneficiaries and Rice farmers Association officials to monitor all the beneficiaries on quarterly basis.
Already he said, the 630 beneficiaries have been trained on methodology of repairing the machines in case of breakdown.