President Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration will continue to reform, modernise and equip the police Force to meet best international practices. Buhari made the commitment yesterday, during the official launch/commissioning of 139 Police operational Vehicles , NPF Crime and Incident Database Centre and National Joint Command and Control Centre at the Force headquarters in Abuja. LEADERSHIP reports that 139 Hilux Patrol Vehicles including 46 Police Smart Surveillance (CCTV Camera-on-the Move) vehicles, 11 Tactical Operations Vehicles fitted with state-of-the-art surveillance equipments, nine Armoured Personnel Carriers, five Troop Carriers and seven Anti-Riot Water Cannon Trucks were commissioned by the President. While commissioning the facilities, PMB noted that the leadership of the Force is making progress despite inheriting internal security challenges that were characterise with banditry, kidnapping and others. “I am aware that the IGP inherited internal security situation characterize by bandits, kidnappers, armed robbers, and highly organised criminals in some parts of the country. The nature of these crimes affected confidence in the capacity of the police to protect lives. I am confident with the strategies put in place and the quality of leadership being provided there will be confidence to enhance the operational capacity of the police. “I know that the Force has been collaborating effectively with state governments, strategic stakeholders and other security agencies to restore security in states. I charged the police leadership to avoid complicencies in the effort towards getting the country out of crime. “In addition, my regime is to bequit to our nation a legacy of a reform, modernise, fully equipped and highly motivated and fully focused police force that is oriented to the virtue of professionalism, respect for rule of law, due process and best international practices in their operations. It is in cognizance of this that I approved the recruitment of 10,000 police Personnel on an annual basis to motivate and enhance the manpower of the Force, it is also in this regard that I assented to the police trust fund bill.” He said the federal government is conscious of the funding limitations of the Force and its effect on the ultimate delivery of Police service, saying that government will continue to enhance funding as well as work towards meeting the manpower requirements of the Force while charging the leadership of the Force to continue to create new orientations to all sets so that they can appreciate the virtues of policing and ensure the institution regain its position of confidence and respect from Nigerians. The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu stated that the acquisition of the Police Smart Surveillance Vehicle which are fitted with high-resolution, long-distance CCTV monitoring equipment with night electronic functionalities is part of the policing strategies to deploy surveillance technology in crime management operations. According to him, “The vehicles will be deployed for real-time Electronic monitoring of the Abuja-Kaduna highway and other major highways and vulnerable locations across the country including a surveillance of NNPC piplines in the country. “The patrol vehicles on the other hand, will be utilized to strengthen the Safer Highway Patrol Scheme, while the Tactical and Armoured Personnel Carriers will be used for special police operations especially, in support of our anti-banditry, ant-kidnapping and anti-robbery operations. The Water Cannon Trucks shall be deployed for the management of civil disorders within the dictates of our democratic values, rule of law and international best practices.” The IGP added that the commissioning of the Vehicles represents the first phase of the Force re-equipment plan, saying that with the effective take-off of the Police Trust Fund the blue print of modernising all components of their operations will be sustain.