Operators of the stock market have expressed optimism that the nation’s bourse will witness positive performance in 2020 due to low interest rate in money market instrument and early passage of the incoming year’s budget. They stated this yesterday in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos while reacting to the stock market expectations in 2020. The chief executive officer, InvestData Ltd, Mr Ambrose Omordion, said that low interest rate regime, increased credit to the real sector and early assent to the 2020 budget were factors that would impact positively on the market. “The market in 2020 looks promising as factors that will shape the economy and stock market are on the increase in spite of the continuous downgrade by rating agencies,” Omordion said. He stated that the early implementation of capital expenditure would have multiplier effects on the economy. According to him, regulatory initiatives and policies such as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Treasury Bills (TBs) and Open Market Operation restrictions would attract local and institutional investors’ sentiment to the equity market. Omordion noted that the exchange new free-float rule expected to commence on January 2, 2020 would improve market liquidity and transparency, thereby impacting positively on the market. On sectors to watch out in 2020, Omordion said that financial, consumer goods, building materials, telecomms/ICT would be the most sought by investors. “The financial sector is more marketable, consistent in dividend payout and if the economy finds its feet in 2020, the banks will benefit more,” Omordion said. He noted that low price attraction of consumer goods stocks due to huge losses suffered in 2019 would make the sector attractive. Omordion added that low interest rate on consumption would boost the industry earnings, noting that mobile licence would boost telecomms sector’s profitability. Also, the managing director of APT Securities and Funds Ltd, Malam Garba Kurfi, said that the year 2020 would be a better one for the Nigerian stock market. “The past two consecutive years recorded losses in two digits 18 per cent and 16 per cent for 2018 and 2019, indicating a decline of 34 per cent. “The crash of interest rate in the money market instrument from 15 per cent to about seven per cent or less makes money market returns negative compared with inflation of about 12 per cent,’’ Kurfi said. The national coordinator of Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Mr Boniface Okezie, said that the stock market performance would be determined by the country’s economic activities. Okezie charged economic managers tio pursue friendly policies to boost investors’ confidence in the stock market and the economy in general. The shareholder activist said that the price of oil in the international market, security situation and adherence to rule of law were factors that would shape the stock market activities in the coming year. According to him, government must improve in adherence to the rule of law in order to bring in foreign investors into the country. Okezie also urged government to address multiple tax regime affecting the growth and development of the manufacturing sector.