Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Magashi (retired), has charged graduands of the Air Force War College (AFWC) Course 5/2019 to be innovative and inject fresh ideas into the nation’s security system. In a statement by the Director of Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, he said this is where their knowledge of joint operations and application of air power would be required to further ensure that peace returns in earnest to trouble spots in the country. The minister who was represented by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Gabriel Olonisakin, as special guest of honour at the occasion in Makurdi said “the changing nature of warfare poses new challenges to security forces. Sub-conventional threats are on the rise creating a significantly more complex strategic environment, both at the global and regional levels. The nature of these challenges makes it necessary to be innovative and explore contemporary ways and means to tackle them. Invariably, doctrinal development, force structure, planning and equipment provisioning for asymmetric warfare become much more challenging problems than what is obtainable in a conventional war.” He commended the efforts of the NAF at focusing its force structure to address the widely dispersed challenges, while at the same time, exploring local talents and resources to address equipment maintenance through research”, he added. Magashi lauded the efforts of the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, for not only being the first to establish a single Service War College, but also for graduating the fifth set of senior officers from the College. He said there was no doubt that the AFWC is now an established citadel of knowledge for transiting tactical level officers into operational level commanders.
The transition, he said, aptly fits into the needed security architecture of the country in the wake of current security challenges. Speaking further, the minister noted that the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) had continued to perform creditably well in addressing the various internal security challenges facing the nation. He said the NAF’s role in employing Air Power, being a critical component of the military instrument of National Power, has remained a formidable force in dealing with these challenges and preserving the nation’s territorial integrity. He therefore commended the efforts of the NAF, especially for the crucial role it has been playing in the ongoing counterinsurgency and counter-terrorism operations, while noting that “the Service has also attracted tremendous goodwill and credibility to the nation through the provision of airlift and humanitarian support for the African Union, United Nations and friendly African countries”.  In his remarks, the CAS stated that the event marked a major milestone for the participants as well as the College as it graduates the fifth set of well-trained operational level officers of the NAF and sister Services. He said the unstructured, dynamic and complex nature of security threats facing the country necessitated a reorientation of the Nation’s security apparatus to enable it effectively contain the emerging challenges. According to him, a major component of the required paradigm shift is task-defined training.  While appreciating the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, for the strategic guidance that had made the establishment of AFWC realizable, the CAS stated that the NAF would continue to work assiduously, along with sister services and other security agencies, to ensure a secured and prosperous Nigeria.  In his welcome address, the Commandant AFWC, Air Vice Marshal Charles Oghomwen, stated that the college strived to effectively fill the gap in qualitative manpower in the field of air power for the effective conduct of air operations.