As Nigeria commences the process for polio free certification, experts have cautioned that the country needs to step-up actions to stop transmission of all types of polioviruses. The experts, who gave the caution at the 37th session of the Expert Review Committee (ERC) on Polio Eradication and Routine Immunization (RI) in Nigeria, held in Abuja, however commended Nigeria’s effort so far. Addressing journalists at the event,  Chairman of the Committee, Professor Oyewale Tomori, said the fact that the country  has reached this stage doesn’t mean that all is over. He said “so long as we keep having children in this country, we must keep vaccinating them. We should keep protecting our children, the experience of measles in the USA should tell us that the work is not over. Any child that is born in this country should have the right dose of vaccine. “We have reached a milestone, we can also say with confidence that Nigeria will be declared polio free, but again, it is subjec to findings of the African Regional Certification. “When we are saying that the country is being polio free, we can only say in areas where we have access to. The area we don’t have access to, we don’t know what is going on there. confidently, we can say we are close to being polio free in the  areas we have access to. Efforts are ongoing to make sure we get access to those areas we don’t access to now. until we get access to every corner of this country,  we can really say that we have eradicated polio.” In his presentation on behalf of ERC members, the Coordinator, Polio Eradication Programme at World Health Organization (WHO) Africa Regional, Office, Dr Pascal Mkanda, said if Nigeria gets it right, Africa could be certified Polio-free soon having achieved the  milestones of being three years’ wild polio-free. Dr Mkanda used the ERC meeting to inform government and people of Nigeria that the African Regional Certification Commission (ARCC) for Polio Eradication certification will start conducting field verification and reviewing documentation of interruption of wild polio virus (WPV) from next week (09 December 2019). According to him, “If the ARCC is satisfied with the national documentation and field verification, the WHO African Region could be certified to have eradicated WPV by mid-2020.” Nigeria is one of the remaining four countries in Africa (Central Africa Republic, South Sudan, Cameroun and Nigeria) that are yet to have documentation accepted for Polio Certification. “it is important that the Nigerian government and partners avoid any complacency that could jeopardize Nigeria’s removal from the list of polio-endemic countries and certification of wild polio virus interruption for the African Region”, said Dr. Nkamda. The ERC meets periodically to evaluate the progress made in ensuring a polio-free Nigeria. The monitoring body also provides guidance to the government and development partners on best practices in routine immunization in Nigeria. 