The Northern apex socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has implored the federal government to use the 37 billion budgeted for the first phase of the renovation of the National Assembly to build infrastructure in the country. ACF appealed to the government to put the planned renovation on hold pending the improvement of the country’s economy. The president of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, had earlier this month disclosed that about N37 billion has been earmarked for the first phase of the renovation of the National Assembly complex which was built 20 years ago. Lawan who said they met with the management of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and President Muhammadu Buhari, who promised to renovate the complex, added that the N37 billion was part of the N10.33 billion budget passed by the National Assembly and signed into law by the president. But speaking exclusively with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the ACF said instead of allowing the National Assembly to use the said money for renovation, the federal government should use the money to improve the country’s infrastructural deficit. National Secretary of the ACF, Mr Anthony Sani, said while the 30 per cent minimum wage had already compelled the government to reduce the provision for capital expenditure to less than 30 per cent, the proposed renovation of the National Assembly was needless. “While there can be no cavil with the significance  of the desire by the National Assembly to renovate part of its complex, provision of N37 billion for the renovation in the 2020 budget cannot be appropriate at a time of dire needs of resources to execute capital projects,” the ACF scribe said. According to Sani, since the minimum wage has forced the government to reduce the provisions for capital expenditure to less than 30 per cent in the budget of 2020, spending to improve infrastructure should be priotised. He stated: “Given the need for sacrifices to revamp the economy by way of diversification to be spread evenly among all Nigerians and the fact that the NASS complex’s renovation is not a matter of urgency, we appeal that the renovation be kept on hold pending when the economy improves appreciably. “This will free the N37 billion for more pressing demands on the limited resources. The minimum wage has reduced the provision for capital expenditure to less than 30 per cent”.