A Bayelsa based philanthropist and founder of the Nice Esther For All Foundation (NEARI) , Chief Nice Toboulayefa Alamieyesigha has offered reasons why the family of First Executive Governor of Bayelsa State, Late D.S.P Alameiseigha endorsed and support the Governorship aspiration and victory of the All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate, Chief David Lyion as Governor-elect in the state. Chief Nice Toboulayefa Alamieyesigha, who is known internationally for her humanitarian services, while speaking in Yenagoa during the unveiling of her non-governmental Organisation, the “Nice-Esther for All Foundation” NEFAF and conferment of the prestigious title of the ‘GOLDEN BRIDE OF IJAW NATION’ by the Ijaw Youths Council (worldwide), said the family and followers of the late Chief DSP Alamieyeseigha embraced the Governor-elect, Chief David Lyon and his Deputy, Senator Biobarakumo Degi Eremienyo due to their sincere show of embracing the Ijaw struggle for resource control and self-determination,” and promised to consolidate on the legacies of the late ljaw hero to achieve set goals” Nice Alamieyesigha, who is known to have, in the last twelve years, catered for orphans, widows, destitute, physically challenge, also provided scholarship, housing scheme, medical care and given soft loans, said her NGO has concluded plans to build an orphanage in Amassoma in Southern Ijaw Area of the State, in order to make sure a voice is given to the voiceless and dreams are achieved. She presented dozens of wheel chairs, clutches, packs of rice and money to beneficiaries. According to her, “It’s an honor I will forever cherish, as I pledge to never relent in my course for a better society for the physically challenged, widows, orphans and the destitute amongst us. It’s indeed, a global path on my back and an encouragement to do more”. She described herself as a crusader of peace adding that the lessons from the award is never to relent and promised to work tirelessly with the Board of Directors of her Foundation to expand the scope of the reach out in the country. She said the inspiration to start the Foundation came from her mother who placed the welfare and well-being of other children above immediate family members Earlier, the leadership of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) worldwide led by its President, Barr. Oweilaemi Peretubo, in recognition of her contribution to the Niger Delta region, conferred on her the prestigious title of the ‘GOLDEN BRIDE OF IJAW NATION’. Peretubo, who led zonal Chairmen, State and National Executives of the Ijaw Youth Council, during the award presentation, noted that it is the first of its kind in the region and a formal induction into the ‘IYC Hall of Fame’. Presenting the Golden Bride of Ijaw Nation Award on behalf of the IYC to Dr. Nice Tobolayefa Alamieyeseigha, in the presence of the Ebenanaowei of Ogboin Clan, His Royal Majesty King Oweipa Jones D.Ere 111 and other notable Chiefs, Barr. Oweilaemi Pereotubo said the IYC is proud to be associated the life transforming activities of the awardee through empowerment of the disable, physically changed, widows, award of scholarship to indigent students, provision of housing schemes and donations to orphanage homes, granting of loans to business men and women, health outreach programs among others that have changed the narrative in the ljaw nation. He commended Chief Dr. (Mrs.) Nice Tobolayefa Alamieyeseigha for her selfless service, sacrifice and using her vantage position, worldwide traveling experience and resources to lift the vulnerable from the doldrums. The IYC President, Chairmen and other members cutting across all the zones fully represented presented the plaque and certificate of the award to Chief Dr.(Mrs) Nice Tobolayefa Alamieyeseigha and decorated her with the IYC emblem. He enjoined those occupying privileged positions to emulate the kind gesture of the awardee to reach out to the needy in the society.