The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) said it will begin implementation of its new free float rules as from the first working day in 2020. The NSE, which had suspended the implementation of the new rules on May 31, 2019, indicated that the new rules will now take effect on January 2, 2020. The new rules were initially scheduled to take effect on Monday June 3, 2019. Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had approved the new rules on May 06, 2019. The new rules require quoted companies to indicate their shareholding structure and compliance level with the minimum number of shares or capitalisation being held by minority retail shareholders in their half-year reports. Under the existing rules, companies are only required to indicate shareholding structure in full-year report and are not under obligation to categorically indicate compliance with free float. Free float, otherwise known as public float, refers to the number of shares of a quoted company held by ordinary shareholders other than those directly or indirectly held by its parent, subsidiary or associate companies or any subsidiaries or associates of its parent company; its directors who are holding office as directors of the entity and their close family members and any single individual or institutional shareholder holding a statutorily significant stake, which is 5.0 per cent and above in Nigeria. The new rules, indicated that companies shall also be required to undertake periodic self-assessment of their free float compliance and report any breach or shortfall to the Exchange. The new rules place the onus of investigation and compliance on the companies, in addition to existing surveillance by the capital market authorities. According to the amended rules, every company shall independently review its free float every half-year or other reasonable time, and when there is a breach of its free float requirement, disclose this to the Exchange and immediately initiate the steps to remedy the default and comply with its free float requirement.