The chief of air staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar has hosted soldiers and officers of the Air Taskforce Operation Lafiya Dole to a Christmas luncheon. Declaring the Christmas luncheon open on Wednesday in Maiduguri, Abubakar expressed his delight to be in the state to celebrate with the troops The air chief noted that It has been his tradition since the beginning of his administration to dine with officers and men during festive periods, especially those at the frontline. Abubarkar who was represented by the chief  of training  and operations, Air Force headquarters, Isiaka Amao, said:” This is to fill the void created by our inability to be with our families for the festivities. These get-togethers is aimed at fostering comradeship and give us the opportunity to commend ourselves for our  ortheast. Due to certain exigencies, I was not here in person to attend the dinner to celebrate the successful completion of 7-day intensive Air Interdiction Code named Op RATTLE SNAKE 1, but I was ably represented by the Director of Operations and am aware you had a good time. “ Let me use this opportunity to congratulate you all for the successful accomplishment operation objectives. However, we should always remember that it is not over until it is over. There is still a lot to be done. We must redouble our efforts to completely rid the Northeast of the terrorist to enable people go about their businesses in peace. “ You are aware that so much is at stake in the theatre and a lot expected from us, thus, we cannot allow ourselves to be taken unawares. I implore you to remain committed and focus on the objective of the operation while you remain vigilant to protect property and men as well as equipment put under your care. While thanking God for His mercies and keeping us alive to see this celebration, “ I appreciate all your efforts and wish you all a Happy Christmas Celebration. “Having said this, I want to specially thank the President and Commander-in- Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari, for providing us with the resources and enabling environment to carry out our assigned duties. “We can only show our appreciations for the Presidents support to the Nigeria Air Force by remaining a discipline force and exhibiting the highest level of professionalism in all our actions. I therefore enjoin you all not to relent in these efforts.”