More insights have emerged on how the police in Lagos State arrested two suspects who on Sunday night invaded the Lugard, Ikoyi home of the Managing Director of Maersk Line Shipping Company Gildas Tohouo, killing his wife in the process. The police in the state in an operation, personally led by the state police commissioner , Hakeem Odumosu had less than an hour after the attack, arrested an electrician in the estate , Goke Olamilekan, who invited one of his friends , Akande Adeyinka to carry out the dastardly act. The State police commissioner who instantly raced to the scene , on receiving  a distress call from the  shipping company , was said to  have personally  smoked out the two suspects  from their hiding . One of the two suspects , Akande  had reportedly climbed a mango  tree and was hiding , when the police boss beamed  his  long torch light on him  and was promptly arrested . A police source , who spoke under the condition of anonymity   described  the Sunday  night  operation by the police team as “ effective and timely “ and added that the two suspects  would have escaped  from the scene, if the police commissioner  had not arrived . The police source also said that the insistence of the Lagos State police boss that they should search everywhere around the estate , despite the darkness , helped in the arrest  of the suspects  . The top police source said “ the CP was on patrol, when he received  the distress call  and he swiftly moved to the scene , where he mobilized  the Divisional  Police Officer (DPO) and the Area Commander in the area . “It was dark  and everybody wanted to go home but the CP insisted that  we must get  something that would help  in not just the investigation  but also to quickly arrest  the perpetrators   “ The top police boss also said,“ It was an effective  and timely operation. Those boys would have escaped if the CP had not gone there himself. They were hiding and no one would have thought that somebody was on the tree.” He also stated that “At a time people felt that it was late and that everybody should go  but the CP went to his vehicle and brought out a torch . It was very sharp. He was beaming the light in different directions, when he pointed it up the tree and there he saw where one of the suspect was hiding.’’ Preliminary investigations by the police  also revealed  that the two suspects had planned the operation  for  three weeks , before eventually  carrying it out last  Sunday . The police also found out that the two suspects hid their weapons in one of the vacant flats in the estate and strategized on how to carry-out the operation. The electrician had told his partner in the crime to lie to the security men that he was going to see a certain Mr Max , which coincidentally  is the name of one of the residents of the estate. 