Leading Indigenous Oil and Gas Servicing Company, AOS Orwell has announced its N10million donation to the Hope for Sight Initiative (HSI) in assisting and conducting cataract surgeries for indigenes in Ogun State, Nigeria. This was disclosed during a press conference of the Hope for Sight Initiative with partnerships from Inlaks and Eye Foundation Hospital, in Lagos. The founder of the Hope for Sight Initiative, 16-year old Lakshmi Gopinathan, revealed that about 4.25 million Nigerians are visually impaired or blind, where 43 per cent of blindness in Nigeria was as a result of untreated cataract. She said that the numbers reflect the urgent need to make surgeries accessible for people with the condition, adding that it can be treated easily. According to her, “Cataract being the leading cause of blindness in Nigeria and common in the older age group that is 50 years and above, it is on the rise especially in rural areas within the country where sensitisation levels are low and there is a general misconception of the disease and its treatment options.” She explained that people are either ignorant of the condition, take vision for granted, can’t afford the surgery or don’t know they have a cataract problem. Gopinathan said having contended with the optical challenge herself at age six, she wants to give back to Nigerians where they would benefit from the donations and surgeries, as she has spent most part of her life in the country. The managing director, AOS Orwell, Femi Omotayo speaking on the donation said, “We are a compassionate organisation with a heart for people. This is why we jumped on this initiative when we were approached. It is a laudable cause and we are proud to throw the full force of our financial weight behind this.” He further explained that as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes, the company has been involved in several other causes that give back to the community on a consistent note. The Group Head, Human Resources and Administration, Inlaks, Mrs. Adetokunbo Ayo-Ogunsanya lauded the Hope for Sight Initiative and its goal to provide free surgeries to visually-impaired persons. She said, “one of our core values at Inlaks is excellence and we are happy to partner with AOS Orwell working with the best in the industry, Eye Foundation Hospital on this initiative. It is important to one’s existence to have vision and having the heart to give back to the society and I have confidence in the Hope for Sight Initiative to change lives.” 