The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) yesterday said there was no excuse for governors not to implement the new national minimum wage.
Speaking during a meeting with state council chairmen from the 36 states, NLC president, Ayuba Wabba said the new VAT will soon take effect and governors in some states are yet to commence implementation of the new wage. He said, “Certainly there is no excuse for states to say that they are not going to respect a law that is actually based on the constitution, the national minimum wage is actually a constitutional issue. So, clearly it is about respecting our laws and also respecting international convention and procedures but importantly is to respect social dialogue in addressing industrial relations issues.” Wabba who noted that state governments have the capacity to pay the N30,000 minimum wage which he lamented was not even enough to cater for a family, warned that Congress would do everything possible to protect workers in the country. He noted that some states have already implemented and were paying the new wage, while others were still discussing implementation modalities and still others were yet to start any process. Wabba who raised concerns over the huge salary gap between political office holders and workers, dismissed claims by governors’ that they don’t have resources to pay workers due to high number of workers. He however said that there was need to take stock as most workers have retired and states have not been employing to fill the vacancies. “They say workers are many but we know that in many states employment have not taken place, many workers have retired. I was in my state recently in an office where you used to have 20 to 30 people, if you are lucky you will find only three or four people. This is the reality, we must have data on our fingertips, we must do everything possible to protect the poor workers “When the minimum wage was increased to N18,000 political office holders earnings was increased by 800 percent by revenue mobilisation and fiscal commission, today all political office holders collect the same salary from councilor to the highest office yet in our own case they will come and say ability to pay. If it is ability to pay can’t they apply inability to pay when it comes to payment of governors? Where is the rationale, where is the human nature that is in us? where is the justice? where is the truth? A state that is receiving small amount of money from the federation account if you look at what the political office holders are earning its the same with Lagos State that is very buoyant and in some cases they can even earn higher. “All of us working class must continue to see ourselves as one. We are going to take stock from state to state before we take a decision,” he added.