Over 100 civil society organisations (CSOs) yesterday staged a solidarity march in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for President Muhammadu Buhari and the Department of State Services (DSS). They warned Amnesty International to stop what they termed “its needless intervention” in the country’s security issues or risk being declared persona non grata. With placards bearing inscriptions such as “March for peace and security; Thank you our security agencies for keeping Nigeria safe; Vote of confidence on NSA, Gen. Babagana Monguno, DG DSS Yusuf Magaji Bichi, IGP Mohammed and others”, the groups stormed the National Assembly where they asked the lawmakers to also pass a vote of confidence on the security agencies for their sacrifices for Nigeria’s safety. On behalf CSOs, the convener of the solidarity march, Comrade Adamu Matazu, urged Nigerians to be mindful of their criticisms, especially when national security is at stake, adding that the support for uniform personnel was critical. He said: “Against this backdrop, we as the conscience of democracy, human right and indisputable champion of human rights wishes to state the following positions: That there is nothing repressive or suppressible about the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari rather it is a new era of transparency, respect for rule of law and security. “That where national security is threatened, we must join hand with our security agencies in neutralising imminent threats to our collective well-being, safety and security. “That we are satisfied with the present leadership of the DSS led by a seasoned intelligent officer, Mr. Yusuf Magaji Bichi, under whose leadership has brought the needed reforms in the service. “That we admonish the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to stop meddling into national security issues in the name of protecting human rights defenders. “That we salute the DSS and other security organisations in containing all national threats and for safeguarding our democracy and for their tolerance to genuine and objective criticisms. “That we are using this medium to pass a vote of confidence on the Muhammad Buhari-led administration for its successes in the war against terrorists, economic saboteurs, bandits and other security threats across Nigeria,” he said.