The federal government has rejected the United States of America (USA) designation of Nigeria as a country which engages in or tolerates severe violations of religious freedom. It said that the US fell for the antics of the discontented and the unpatriotic few Nigerians, stressing that the iniquitous tag stemmed from an orchestrated narrative that had long been discredited. In a statement issued in Abuja, yesterday, the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said that the good people of Nigeria enjoy unfettered freedom to practice their religion. He, however, blamed failed politicians and disgruntled elements – some of them supposedly-respected leaders for latching on to religion as their trump card, especially in the run-up to the last general elections to oust the President Muhammadu Buhari-ledadministration. Mohammed said: ‘’It is unfortunate that the US fell for the antics of the discontented and the unpatriotic few, who will not hesitate to hang Nigeria out to dry on the altar of their inordinate ambition and their sheer animosity towards the administration.’’ The minister said that the federal government is acutely aware of how the opposition, in particular, had spared no resources in deriving political capital from the various security challenges in the country According to him,  ‘’the deliberate effort to give religious coloration to the farmers-herders’ clashes and the Boko Haram insurgency, in particular, has undoubtedly helped to mislead the US into concluding that the government is doing little or nothing to guarantee religious freedom in the country. ‘’But, as we have always said, the farmers-herders’ clashes have nothing to do with religion but everything to do with environmental and socio-economic realities. ‘’The religious tag given to the clashes has no basis, in fact, it is very convenient for those who will very easily give the dog a bad name just to hang it. On its part, the Boko Haram terrorists are extreme fanatics who do not subscribe to the tenets of any religion, in spite of their pretence to Islamic adherence,’’ he said. Mohammed said that the good news is that the government has succeeded in curbing the farmers-herders’ clashes through the implementation of proactive and multi-dimensional strategy, which is yielding remarkable results, just as it has largely defeated the Boko Haram insurgency. On the Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky issue, which was referred to in the report by the US government, the minister described it is purely a criminal matter, which is being handled by a court of competent jurisdiction. He said that while the government welcomes constructive criticism from any quarter, it rejects any attempt to sow the seed of mistrust among the various religious groups in Nigeria.  Both countries to meet on religious freedom violation tag Also yesterday, the presidency said that the action of the US government does not make Nigeria a country of concern on religious freedom. The senior special assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, said that Nigeria and the US would deliberate on the matter early next year. He said that placing Nigeria on US watch list carries no immediate implication and that does not in any way make the country an area of concern as being asserted in some quarters. “The correct U.S. government position is that the addition of Nigeria to the watch list of the IRF does not make Nigeria a country of concern on religious freedom. “The watch list carries no immediate implication, except for the need for both countries to discuss areas of concern over the next year. We are looking forward to such discussions with our partners, the US,’’ he said. The presidential aide maintained that Nigeria as a geo-political entity had no policy that promotes one religion against the other. According to Shehu, the right to freedom of worship for all citizens is guaranteed in the Nigerian constitution. “We have no policy that promotes one religion against the other. The right to freedom is guaranteed by the constitution and we have no problem observing that,’’ he said. Last week, the US government added Nigeria to a “Special Watch List (SWL)” of countries that have engaged in or tolerated “severe violations of religious freedom”. The inclusion of Nigeria in the religion violations list, which has continued to attract mixed reactions, was announced by the US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo.  CAN, CSO Disagree On Report Meanwhile, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has welcomed the US placing of Nigeria on a special watch list. CAN, in a statement signed yesterday by its president, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, said that although the body was not happy that Nigeria is listed among countries where religious intolerance is one of their hallmarks but it gladdens its hearts that, at least, the global community is not unaware of the fact that Nigerian Christians have become endangered species in their fatherland. Ayokunle said that the reasons given by the US were too glaring to be disputed. He said that the US, like every other country, has an embassy in Nigeria that monitors and reports back what the country goes through and the approach being adopted by the government to addressing the situation. The cleric said that the leadership of the CAN had made this known to President Muhammadu Buhari in all “our meetings with him to see the whole country as his constituency and to avoid nepotism as much as possible; but instead of correcting the imbalance, one of his aides is fond of abusing and insulting the association using every unprintable word.” The statement reads in part: ‘’The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), a few days ago, called for an amendment to the Nigerian constitution with a view to adding more Sharia contents. Since the chief justice has not denied the story and the government has failed to call him to order, it is crystal clear that the US government has more facts than the government thinks. ‘’If the government is sensitive to our yearnings and aspirations, how come no Christian is heading any of the three arms of government in the present dispensation? This is unprecedented in the history of this country since Independence. Is that one of the reasons why no Christian worthy of occupying any of those sensitive positions?’’ CAN said that another slap on its face is the composition of the National Security Council (NSC) of the country. ‘’We learnt that 98 per cent of its members come from one part of the country and people of the same faith. Let the government unmask its members including their religions and states of origin. ‘’The government is telling us that Christians are not worthy of those key appointments but to play the second fiddle. So, another thing that could be responsible for the action of the US government is the lopsided appointments in the polity which confirms popular fear and perception that the government is against the Christians. ‘’We have made it abundantly clear to President Muhammadu Buhari repeatedly that the lopsided appointments of his government in favour of one religion and a section of the country is unconstitutional, violates Nigeria’s Federal Character principle and so it is unacceptable,’’ Ayokunle said The association added that there is enough evidence to prove that the subtle Islamisation agenda and nepotism are real. But the Centre for Social Justice, Equity and Transparency (CESJET) has asked US President Donald Trump to renounce the religious right violation tag placed on Nigeria by his country. In an open letter it addressed to Trump titled: “Religious Intolerance and Extremism: The Islamic Movement of Nigeria, Boko Haram, should be held responsible,” the centre joined the government to rubbish the claim, especially as there was no tangible evidence that suggests that Nigeria is intolerant of religious organisations and promoting violent extremism. The group’s executive secretary, Comrade Ikpa Isaac, explained that the US position doesn’t hold water considering that the country’s constitution guarantees freedom of association and the right to change/switch religions without any form of sanction or punishment. Ikpa said that Nigeria embraces and encourages peaceful coexistence amongst all religions and wondered how the US arrived at its conclusion. The centre, therefore, demanded an immediate withdrawal of the statement/classification for lacking in objectivity and merit. The group requested that an unreserved open apology be tendered to the Nigerian government and her citizens within a 72-hour period in the interest of peace and tranquility. “Mr. President, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, guarantees the freedom of association by all, as well as the right to change/switch religions without any form of sanction or punishment. “This much has been the order of the day as evident in the way and manner citizens of Nigeria freely practice religions of their choices. This is on the heels that Christianity and Islam have the most significant number of followers in Nigeria,” the letter added.