Chief of Army staff, Lt.Gen. TY Buratai has donated food stuff and several other gift items including toiletries worth millions of naira to a motherless baby home operating under the auspices of Blessed Hope and Faith Foster Family Calabar. Delivering the gift items, Gen. Brutai stated that the food stuff was in line with the army’s desire to put a smile on the faces of the inmates especially during this yuletide period where almost every one is thinking on how to celebrate the new year in a grand style. Brutai stated that beyond the putting of smiles on the faces of the inmates, the initiative was another way of bringing succor to kids in the orphanage and to also strengthened the civil/military relationship which the army is desirous of. The gift items includes food items like bags of rice, cartons of bathing/ washing soaps, cartons of tomatoes, rolls of toilet tissues gallons of groundnuts and oil palm just to give succor to the inmates. Commander, 13 Brigade Brig. Gen. Oluyemi Olatoye who represented the Chief of Army Staff at the event stated that it has become like a routine for the army to give succor to the less privileged. The COAS maintained that the items were part of the army’s effort to proof to the society that they were consistent and professionally responsive whereby issues relating to the performance of social responsibility isnt an issue at all. He said that it was in a bid to to perform a social responsibility that the army organized a free medical outreach to give a medical attention to over 1,065 residents of Afi community in the central senatorial district of the state stressing that the army had also collect reached out to over 320 residents of Ekpri ikang community of Bakassi in the Southern senatorial district of the state. He said that another outreach outreach had already been scheduled to take place in Okpoma community in Yala LGA in the northern senatorial district of tbe state very soon. “In line with this, we have embarked on some earlier activities like free medical outreach for people in the southern and central senatorial districts and that of the northern district will kick off tomorrow. “Before this, I felt we needed to touch the lives of our children who are one way or the other not like the rest of us”, he said. Receiving the food items, proprietor of the home the 93 years old Evangelist Blessing Duke lauded the army authority for coming to the aid of the home.
“For remembering these kids whom are here with me, God will always grant your troops the power, mercy and courage to conquer their enemies any time any day”.
“To your master who had sent you to these children God shall protect him wherever he goes to battle. No enemy can conquer him at all until he quits the service hr will never loose any battle”. Duke explained that the home has been running for over two decades and has over 300 children with some of them in tertiary institutions across the country and pledged to make the most of the items. ” This home is for you people, you know that am almost going home having clock about 93 years old.
When asked how he manages to fend for the kids ,she said that she fends for the kids via the help of her children who were already grown up.