I had always read Adamu Adamu’s articles on the back page of Friday’s Daily Trust, and was marvelled by his ‘literary imagination’. He was a master of the art and when he took you on, it was like a subway train that climaxes with the drive of a rollercoaster. He was rich in content and deep in philosophy. Mohammed Haruna was inch perfect in detail and as statistically accurate as the National Bureau of Statistics. I was in Gwagwalada University and studying Computer Science in my first year. In my first semester, I was number 1 in class, with a high 4.+, closely followed by Ms. Chinyere. During the first semester break I fell in love and decided to start writing my little pots of poetry. By the second semester, I became number 2, and Chinyere had overtaken me. I had the usual F1 skid just at the last curb, before the finishing line stretch and she got the chequered black and white flag at the end of our first year in Computing at the University of Abuja. By the end of my first degree in 1999, I knew that my passion lay in writing and I just never got tired of writing and chirping away on my ‘system’. From 2010 to date, it has always been on my Android (tongue-out and a one eyed wink to Apple posers). The duo of Adamu and Haruna had successfully migrated me from computing to writing. Baba was into politics, and I watched him as a colossal political weight and mind in Northern Nigerian politics. And, better still, a guru of South Western politics. Too early, I leaped head first into politics, instead of cautious steps, down the slippery ladder of Nigeria’s developing political climate. Twenty years after, Nigerian politics has come of age and the art of brokering alliances – that aim to bring different political blocs under one roof, to achieve what would never have been achieved had they insisted on carrying on as tribalistic parties – has come to stay. (A case in point – Buhari/ Tinubu alliance). As I laboured to carry the two bags; politics on the right and writing on the other, the struggle to combine the two impeded my struggle as a young man in a country where youths aren’t given an opportunity to move up the ladder, or get tested and trained in public service, while preparing them as the leaders of tomorrow. Today, the leaders of yesteryears are fast depleting and the youths of yesterday, today and tomorrow are not being prepared for the leadership roles of tomorrow. We are almost at the end of the first quarter of the 21st Century and if this decay is allowed to continue, Nigeria will only be remembered as a giant hollow story. I ran a column on Blueprint throughout 2013, and soon enough, I had abandoned my FAIR TRUTH column and ran to Bauchi to dance to the reggae beats of 2015. I didn’t clinch the House of Representatives’ ticket that I contested for but I couldn’t resist the charm of the General in white (mobile Punch take note) standing tall, with his fist up in the air – the much desired enigma and symbol for change. I stayed put in Bauchi, and it was one million votes. Ammi’s worry was that while writing was calling me forward, my premature leap into unchartered territory was pulling me backwards. Every now and then, she gave me pieces of write-ups that Sam Nda-Isaiah had done before as she tried to motivate me into another successful ‘Leadership’ story in the North, just like Sam. One day I ran into Sam, and I introduced myself and he was very accommodating. He gave me his email and his number and asked me to forward at least 10 of my previous articles and that he would forward it to the chairman of the board of editors, Mr. Christian Ochiama, who would screen them and give him a feedback. He assured me that once his board did that, he would get to me. Less than a week after, Mr. Christian called up and said, is that Dr Tahir? I said no, with this one, the Dr is not yet in view. He said okay. Good, but try and find that in your view soon, ok? I said yes sir. From then on, anytime its close to the moment I am to submit my article before my deadline for the day, I am in a half frenzy, half petrified mood, as it almost feels like it’s back in 1994 in Gwagwalada and I’m preparing for my Statistics 101, which Mallam Bamanga took, and I was afraid of getting any calculation wrong and I would lose my hundred over hundred score. (Marking scheme – they called my STA 101 paper). Sunday back page time in LEADERSHIP is always exam time and it’s almost like presenting your research work to your supervisor and hoping for grades like daddy’s. Well, mine, Nuhu Gidado, says I’m at Sea level and unless I do this for years, he is afraid I might drop it and start heading home for the 2023 Sun splash in Bauchi! But he is happy that I have found my true calling. Thank you Ammi for the motherly ‘koboko’ chasing my heels and were it not for a detribalised Sam Nda-Isaiah that left his gates wide open for me to run to, Ammi would have left me to the white walkers! I decided to wish Uncle Sam a merry Xmas in advance for granting me this unique opportunity to achieve my school days dream of being the successor to Adamu Adamu, on the back page of a national daily that is not throwing punches in only one direction. Nigeria lacks role models like that who are willing to nurture and promote the development of our country. Thank you  Anti Kulu for insisting that I develop what I have a passion for, and develop it into a ‘leadership-like’ venture, and remain independent. The Legislative arm of government has done the unprecedented and we hope and pray that the New Year hits the ground running with speedy release of funds, as a January budget is one thing, and the cash backing is another. If that happens, I might not be able to wish Uncle Sam happy New Year soon enough.  –Tahir is Talban Bauchi.