The federal government has continued to reap the benefits of the recent closure of the country’s land borders as more importers have started to re-route diverted cargoes to the sea ports in Lagos. This was disclosed at a media briefing on the activities of the Apapa Area Command from January 1 to December 18, 2019, by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) area comptroller, Mohammed Abba-Kura. He said that cargoes diverted to Cotonou, Benin Republic seaport had started to find their way to the Apapa ports. According to him, since the beginning of the border closure, the command’s revenue has been on the increase. In his breakdown of the revenue profile, Abba-Kura said that the command generated N112 billion from September to November 2019 as against N95 billion in 2018, rising by N17 billion. He said that the command had so far generated N414 billion from January to December 18, 2019 as against N404 billion realised between January and December 2018. Abba-Kura said: “The land border closure has partly increased our revenue because if we look at the revenue profile of the command since the closure, you will see that every month, there is an increment.” The N414 billion collected from January to December 19, 2019, he said, translated to about 111 per cent of the 2019 annual revenue target and in achieving this, the complementary roles of units likes the Customs intelligence Unit (CIU) and Valuation Unit among others is specially acknowledged.” The NCS chief who asked Nigerians to patronise local goods disclosed that importers had contacted him on plans to reroute trapped cargoes at borders and in the neighbouring countries’ ports. “Nigerians should be patriotic and look inward to growing our economy because the border closure is an opportunity to let us grow. Though, importers thought the closure will be a month or two but now that they know it won’t end anytime soon, they came to ask if they can bring cargoes already in Cotonou and trapped at the border posts.” He however advised them not to alter the port of origin so as not to lose revenue to the federal government. On anti-smuggling campaign, he said that during the period under review, the command seized 112 containers of various items that flouted import procedures, adding that most notable among the items were pharmaceutical products, which include Tramadol that were imported without necessary approval from regulatory agencies like NAFDAC. In the area of export, he said the command recorded high level of compliance on export declaration. Within the period under review, the command also recorded a total of volume 262, 095.09 metric tonnes of exported goods with Free on Board (FoB) value of $132.760 million.