Nigeria, like other countries of the world, has committed to achieving zero new HIV infections and ending the AIDS epidemic by 2030. In a determined effort to realize this, the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) and its partners have initiated a series of strategies, but the goal has however remained a burden on the government and other relevant stakeholders in the country. As this is going on, stigma and discrimination have continued as major obstacles to ending the epidemic as they have continued to constitute a major threat to achieving zero new HIV infections. The Goodluck Jonathan administration, it would be recalled, had passed into law, the anti-stigmatization bill in 2014. The Act makes provisions for the prevention of HIV and AIDS-based discrimination and protects the fundamental human rights and dignity of people living with and affected by HIV and AIDS in the country. Part of the objectives of the Act is to create a supportive environment so that people living with HIV and AIDS are able to continue working under normal conditions for as long as they are medically fit to do so; promote appropriate and effective ways of managing HIV in the workplace, community, institutions and other fields of human endeavours among others. In spite of the existence of this Act, discrimination against people living with HIV/AID has continued in the country. NACA recently decried what it described as unequal treatment of workers based on their HIV status in the workplace. This, the agency said is a clear breach of the right of people living with the disease to gainful employment. According to the agency, “a 2012 study of stigma among people living with HIV in the country showed that 26 per cent of those surveyed had lost a job or source of income in the past year due to HIV-related stigma. “HIV workplace discrimination and strengthening compliance to statutory anti-discrimination laws by employers and employees alike is a critical element of the HIV/AIDS response in Nigeria “People living with HIV/AIDS have a fundamental right to work, just like everybody else. Stigma and discrimination are potent threats to this right and they undermine the opportunities for people to obtain decent employment.” Meanwhile, reiterating its commitment to AIDS free Nigeria by 2030, the Federal Government recently launched a campaign towards achieving zero new HIV infections and reducing stigma by 2020. Speaking during the launch of the campaign tagged “Undetectable = Untransmittable” in Abuja, the Senate president,  Ahmed Lawan, said with the unveiling of the campaign, Nigeria was joining the rest of the international community to raise the consciousness of all Nigerians to the fact that undetectable viral load equals untransmittable virus. According to him, the campaign is central to reminding policy makers, elected representatives, multilateral and unilateral organisations that access to viral load testing needs to be universal for all Nigerians living with HIV. “As we commemorate World AIDS Day 2019, Nigeria is reaffirming its commitment through all the relevant communities to make the difference in the National HIV response to attain the 90-90-90 goal by the end of 2020. “Nigeria is on this day launching an important and strategic campaign to help the country achieve zero new HIV infections and reduce stigma for Nigerians living with HIV. “With the unveiling of this campaign, we stand with Nigerians living with HIV to support their goal of viral load suppression,” said Lawan. Also, the director general of NACA, Dr. Aliyu Gambo, said repeated studies found that no single virally suppressed HIV-positive individual transmitted their infection to their partner. “Therefore, when Nigeria says that undetectable viral load equals untransmittable virus, Nigeria is joining the international community in basing her position on solid scientific evidence. “The drive for undetectable viral load in order to achieve untransmittable virus is promoting the benefits of ARV treatment for Nigerians living with HIV while encouraging more HIV positive Nigerians to access treatment,” he explained. Speaking further, the DG identified the role of communities as essential to HIV/AIDS response in the country, adding this year’s World AIDS Day theme ‘Communities make the difference’ recognised the essential role that communities have played and continue to play in the AIDS response at the international, national and local levels. “As Nigeria strives to achieve epidemic control in an environment where international funding for HIV is reducing and Nigeria’s domestic funding for HIV is estimated to be below 30 per cent, the efforts of communities are urgently needed to ensure that HIV remains on the political agenda and galvanize international and national funding for HIV. “Communities are vital to facilitating an enabling environment that promotes equal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care services for Nigerians. Communities are vital to safeguarding the rights of Nigerians living with HIV. Communities are crucial to holding decision makers and implementers accountable.  Communities include you and I. “Communities include networks of people living with or affected by HIV, women and young people, peer educators, counsellors, community health workers, door-to-door service providers, civil society organisations, religious and traditional leaders, policy makers and activists,” he explained. The efforts of communities, according to Gambo, are more than ever needed to ensure that HIV remains on the political agenda and galvanise international and national funding for HIV to ensure the UNAIDS 90:90:90 goals are achieved and sustained. On his part, the national coordinator, Network of People Living with HlV/AIDS in Nigeria (NEPWHAN), Abdulkadir Ibrahim, called on government to review treatment policies and guidelines to align with World Health Organisation (WHO) standards and global best practices. He said “while NEPWHAN commend government’s commitment to place additional 50,000 people living with HIV annually on treatment, we, however, call on the government to as a matter of urgency review treatment policies and guidelines to align with WHO standards and global best practices.”  