In Nigeria, blame game is becoming an indispensable tool adopted by political leaders in defending their turf. In this report, HENRY TYOHEMBA takes a look at the effect of the syndrome on the nation’s political system. It is no longer strange for political party leaders in Nigeria to engage in blame games over misgovernance or misdeeds in office. Accusation and counter accusation between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on who is to blame for the state of the nation has become commonplace wherever politicians from both parties gather. Naturally, blame game is a trait found in almost every individual unfortunately, it is taking another facet when it comes to politicians and politics as a whole in Nigeria. For some pundits, although issues of the past remain germane to help guard against future misdeeds, the tendency to turn such into the mere blame game holds little or no benefit for the future. In most cases where a party leader speaks up in a public gathering nowadays, the emphasis is only to shift the blame of whatever’s happening in the country on the other party. Right from the time the election result was announced, it would seem like the APC leadership set out a working manual that attributes every failure on their part to the immediate past PDP administration, led by Goodluck Jonathan. Instead of charting new courses and imbibing the culture of forgetting the things of the past and pressing on to higher purposes, the flame of the blame game burns on. The factions from the two giant political parties have coined ways of throwing jibes at each other even at public gathering instead of paving way for a greater Nigeria. Recently in Abuja, a serious verbal exchange took place at the unveiling of the book titled, “The Big Interviews.” On that day, the political class converged at the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Center Abuja at about 10am to honour one of Nigeria’s cerebral and top notch journalists and former Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief of The Sun Newspaper, Mr Eric Osagie as he launched the book. To Osagie, “The Big Interview,” which is an in-depth book on how to get the news subjects and angles that makes the headlines was his compilation of big stories that will teach and inspire younger generations. Majority of the audience were youths who sat anxiously listening to leaders of their country with so much expectation. The arrival of eminent personalities, jumping and hugging one another with  smiles portrayed no sign of grudges until the blame game began. When the two major political parties took turns to make presentations, they deviated from the essence of the event, only to throw verbal punches at each other in the name of defending their political interests. The APC accused the opposition party of never practicing what it preached while in the saddle of the country’s affairs. PDP replied in like manner. Prominent names got involved in the verbal tussle amid the yelling crowd. The national chairman  of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, his PDP counterpart, Prince Uche Secondus and the Governor of Rivers State Nyesom Wike were the top figures defending the interest of each political affiliations especially, over issues concerning President Muhammadu Buhari. It was indeed a clash of the titans. Oshiomhole in his goodwill message started the verbal slugfest. He insinuated that it was good for leaders to practice what they preached. He charged Nigerian journalists to exude fearlessness and courage and ask hard questions during interviews. In his speech, he commended the author of the book for his courage in conducting such big interviews, saying Buhari would be the easiest person to be interviewed by Osagie as he did not wear boxing gloves, but spoke in a soft manner. The former Edo State Governor recalled how he watched an interview by a former Nigerian president who he alleged was a mentor to Governor Wike. Oshiomhole said the ex-president, while speaking on population growth in Africa, said the problem of Africa was due to lack of population control which he identified as the main reason for poverty in the continent. Even though, he pretended not mentioning the former president by name, Oshiomhole went on to say the interviewer further asked the ex-president that as leader of Africa’s most populous nation, how many children he contributed to the population growth and how many wives did he marry. “I thought, for me that was courageous; that leaders should not preach what they are not doing. You can’t be on record as having so many wives, both registered and unregistered, several children, some in dispute, and yet you go to the Queens land and lecture about population.” The APC national chairman also said an ex-president who is famous for writing letters, when asked a question on corruption on the BBC Hard Talk, tried to make a distinction between the president and the government. “But the man said, but you have a responsibility to enforce law and order. You made those laws, but you did not enforce them. I am trying to imagine if anybody could have in this hall, asked him such questions and then he finds his way to his Apo Village to go and sleep as if nothing has happened,” Oshiomhole said. As Oshiomhole spoke, he seemed to reflect the signature of the APC government to blame the past administration. He mocked his opponent in every witty way he could. When it was his turn to make a goodwill message, Wike who is of the opposition PDP, said Oshiomhole raised some issues which needed to be addressed. While reflecting Oshiomhole’s statement that leaders should practice what they preach, he recalled Oshiomhole’s visit to the Presidential Villa to thank a former president for ensuring one man, one vote. “Today, do we have one man one vote? So, you see, it is very, very important. As my leader, I expected that when he had that opportunity to thank a president that said one man one vote, you should have carried it along to make sure there is one man, one vote. So, preach what you practice.” Wike further lambasted the APC-led government for its breach on the fundamental rights and freedoms of Nigerians, saying when the APC was in opposition, they enjoyed freedom to protest. He said there was the ‘Occupy Nigeria’ protest where nobody was arrested, detained, jailed or court orders disobeyed. He added, “Today, are they practicing what they are preaching? So, it is very important for us to know where we are and we cannot be deceived by rhetorics, we cannot be deceived by what we are seeing. All of us know; we’re not progressing, rather, we’re doing what, retrogressing. The PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus continued from where Wike stopped. He decried the violence alleged to have been perpetrated by APC at the Kogi election. Mimicking Oshiomhole’s speech, Secondus said, “Let me begin from where the APC national chairman stopped. Where are some of you who did Occupy Nigeria? As a country are we experiencing any change from the first to fourth republic? From when the then opposition and now the ruling party has come have you seen any improvement? The answer is with you but most importantly, are we free now to speak? “Even in the military era, journalists were vibrant but you can see bills going to National Assembly, bills on anti-freedom of speech.  We need more of these interviews and we need vibrant journalism in our country,” he said. Not willing to back down, Oshiomhole went to the podium a second time to defend his faction. “Let me say to you sir, that the Buhari’s government is practising what he is preaching and that the party he represents (PDP) laid such dangerous foundation. But for people like me, I am happy that you remember one man one vote. I launched it in Benin. Whether you agree with me or not, it is in history and a lot of those who are here were present and I said one man one vote, one woman one vote.” Oshiomhole said if there was any state where blood rather than ink was used to thumb print, it was in Rivers. He cited records by local and international observers in Rivers election to substantiate his allegations. However, the question still remains, would blaming PDP’s past mistakes or APC’s inability to fix things ever move Nigeria forward? Would blaming former and incumbent presidents ever lift this country from its current challenges? Pundits believe all hands need to be on deck, to forge a way forward for the country.  