Dr. Kasim Umar is the chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), University of Abuja branch. In this interview with HENRY TYOHEMBA, he bares his mind on the  implications of IPPIS on the university system, among other issues. What would be the implication of federal government insisting on varsity lecturers enrolling in IPPIS? ASUU has been saying that IPPIS is not the best for the system as a result of the peculiarities in the university system and we have been saying that getting our members to enroll on IPPIS violates the university miscellaneous Act of 2003 which also violates the academic freedom and university autonomy. So many issues are involved but when you talk of the implications we made it known that this thing is illegal to the system and the implication is that it will cost industrial disharmony, it is counterproductive and there is nothing we can do rather than the government to tread the path of honor and accept that IPPIS should not be enlisted into the programme and we provide alternative. An alternative that is home grown which takes care of the peculiarities in the university system. Government will have some minimal control on it and the university will keep on growing because all over the world, there is nothing like IPPIS in academics, it is meant purely for civil service and that is our position. ASUU leadership at a press conference recently vowed to embark on strike should federal government make any attempt to hold their salaries, How prepared is university of Abuja to complement ASUU on this? How prepared are we is not even the issue, the issue is when we work, our legitimate means of reward has to be paid because you have a policy that is counterproductive to be used in the system. As intellectuals, we said that this programme will be counterproductive then government comes up with a threat of no-work-no-pay, so, the union also has in its own position on that no-work-no-pay threat, which we are going to invoke any anytime the government feels stopping salary is the solution. In our branch here we had a congress to reaffirm even the position of NEC on IPPIS that we are not going to be enrolled and if salary is stopped we have approval by NDC to apply a no-pay-no-work, it’s as simple as that. An article published in a national newspaper recently, suggested that ASUU was not afraid of IPPIS, but the policy will make it impossible for universities to perform maximally. Does UniAbuja ASUU share in this opinion? The issue of we rejecting or government having a propaganda, misinforming the public that ASUU is against IPPIS because it is going to curb corruption in the system, all we are saying is that a system that will checkmate corruption is welcomed by our union. However, we are saying that IPPIS is not free from corruption because at least we have so many reference points, even the process of enrolling people into IPPIS is questionable. You have so many individuals parading themselves using this and getting themselves enrolled and you don’t know their ministries and that is why from the beginning when government said IPPIS has saved amount of over N20 billion we said which ministry, who are these individuals and why were they not prosecuted. So ASUU is not afraid of IPPIS but we are saying that the peculiarities in the IPPIS system has no solution to those peculiarities and the legality of even IPPIS itself. What is the law when you are using illegality to legitimize the legality, it doesn’t make sense and that is why the union has proffered a solution which we call University Transparency and Accountability System, it will accommodate all these differences. We are saying that this has a collective measure to check the corruption or whatever the government feels, because ASUU has zero tolerance for corruption. We have never for once supported corruption and that is why we are always with government. The mediums for you to checkmate corruption are clear. Visitation is one of them and we have been agitating for visitation even to the extent that we embarked on struggle as a result of government to bring visitation panel to federal universities and up till today, nothing has been done. There are reports that members of ASUU, Uniabuja chapter are sneaking to enrol on the system. Can you clear the air on this? All these are just propaganda to confuse individuals. You can see even the IPPIS consultants that were sent to various universities were begging our colleagues to come and enrol because they know how many you get enrolled that is how you are paid. These are business people that don’t even know what they are doing and again, to go straight to the point, our union members are not enrolling at all. Some of these individuals that they see as academics, you can be a lecturer and you are not a member of our union so there are certain individuals in our university, they are just about 3 to 4 and they are expelled members of the union as far back as 2013 and these people that went against the principle and constitution of the union. So they are not our members, they have been expelled. None of our members have gotten enrolled on this programme, we remain resolute. What would be your advice to members concerning enrolment on IPPIS? My general observation is for us to remain resolute, government cannot intimidate us. They cannot cajole us into enrolment on IPPIS we are saying that IPPIS is a scam and government must listen. In fact, I’m calling for a proper panel of inquiry to be set up by government, to investigate the IPPIS. It is not because we are rejecting it, tax payers’ money has been deployed into this process, stolen and we are celebrating corruption and pretend that we are fighting it. In fact, with what is going on in IPPIS, I don’t think government itself will have the courage of encouraging people to get enrol. About 72 agencies are not registered on IPPIS. Why do you think government is focused on ASUU? What we are saying is that this IPPIS is for civil servants, but the academic is different from civil service and that is what we are saying. That is why we use the word peculiarity, inflexibility in the system but if government so believed in this why are they looking for universities while there are so many agencies that are not on this programme. About 72 government agencies are still not on IPPIS, so you wonder what they see in the university system that they want to introduce IPPIS. The other day, they were saying FIRS, CBN, NNPC are not on IPPIS because they are revenue generation agencies and the question you ask is these are public institutions, they are not private enterprises, tax payers money is used, even human capital development, so what are you saying? But as far as we are concerned, universities are fountain of intellectualism and the most appropriate ground for incubation of leaders of tomorrow is from the university system, so by and large we generate knowledge, if we are not generating money we generate knowledge. So an institution that generates knowledge should be taken seriously so that nothing will stop the process of working in consonance with other counterparts in the world and you will bear with me that it is not good reason? the first objective they told us about IPPIS is to curb corruption, so the question now is that, are revenue generation agencies not prone to corruption? that’s what it means. So as far as we are concern, IPPIS in the university system is a no go area.