As part of advocacy against road crashes, Ogun State government on Friday said it would henceforth arrest and prosecute alcoholic dealers and consumers of illicit drugs in all motor parks across the state. Chairman of the Ogun State Interim Committee on Transportation, Barrister Sunday Adeniyi stated this in Abeokuta, the state capital while speaking at a seminar on “Road Safety Driving During Festive Season” organized by his committee in conjunction with Tunes Communication Limited for stakeholders in the transport sector. Adeniji, who spoke in line with, “don’t drink and drive” campaign safety slogan of the Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC), said the Dapo Abiodun’s administration is working towards collaborating with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for possible arrest and prosecution of alcoholic dealers at Ogun motor parks. He pointed out that alcoholic consumption by commercial drivers are responsible for majority of the road crashes witnessed over the years, stressing that the state will do everything possible to eradicate alcoholic consumption by drivers. In his presentation at the seminar, the state Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC), Clement Oladele said no fewer than 338 died from the road crashes recorded in Ogun highway corridors between January and 20th December, this year. The FRSC boss explained that 50 per cent of the death occurred at diversion points of which trucks and other articulated vehicles were responsible for about 80 per cent of the total road crashes recorded so far in the Ogun corridors. While attributing causes of the crashes to over-speeding, wrongful overtaken around construction zones as well as break failure among others, Oladele said FRSC is prepared to prosecute truck owners found culpable of causing road crashes and ensure that compensations are paid to accident victims. With specific mentioning of the recent tanker fire disaster in Sango – Ota Toll Gate, Oladele explained that FRSC was already compiling lists of the accident victims for possible prosecution of the company whose tanker truck was responsible for the crash and get the victims compensated. “I need to talk to some extent about these trucks. We know that some of these trucks are over aged and not well maintained and also over loaded. We will prosecute culprits and make sure that there is compensation for victims. “For those of them who have small children, we will make the companies to pay compensation to the extent that they give their children scholarships till they finish their university education and also employ them. “We are praying the court to also make FRSC one of the security agencies that will enforce it and it is not the family members that will be looking for these companies”. Oladele also disclosed that the FRSC was already collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Works towards ensuring that potholes on all the federal highways in Ogun corridors are patched to further ensure safe drive during the festive seasons. In his goodwill message, the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson urged members of the motoring public to be vigilant against kidnappers who dressed in police uniforms and pretend to be security agents on the highways, stressing that not all uniformed men seen on the roads during this festive seasons are genuine security agents. Ebrimson, who was represented at the Ogun December 2019 road safety campaign by the Area Commander in charge of Adatan, ACP Idashaba Friday also cautioned members of the Ogun motoring public against over gauging their vehicles’ tyre to avoid tyre burst while travelling. 