The Federal Government of Nigeria has said that it would soon commence a comprehensive review of the country’s trade policy. Minister of industry, trade and investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, dropped this hint during a media briefing in Abuja. The minister said government wants to restructure the country’s trade policy and reset the economy with it, and would be using trade negotiations to create a consistent safeguard to protect the nation’s economy. He said the review of the trade policy would enable the government to expand market opportunities for Nigerian companies as well as look into the ECOWAS Common External Tariff and the EPA that had been seen to be controversial. He also restated the readiness of the government to develop the six new economic zones in the country to boost manufacturing sector but emphasised that, “We are still desirous of creating these zones. However, we are trying to be diligent to avoid pitfalls. A lot is going on about economic zones.” Minister of state, industry, trade and investment, Amb. Mariam Katagum, also disclosed that government was considering the opening of the country’s closed borders with its West African neighbours soon. Katagum said the border closure would not have occurred if Nigeria’s neighbours had complied with the various MOUs as well as the ECOWAS transit protocols, including the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS). Katagum however said the reopening of the border was largely dependent on member countries complying with the Economic Community of West African State protocol,which the affected countries violated, adding that Benin and Niger Republics were not yet doing enough to ameliorate the challenges that led to the border closure. She said the magnitude of seizures and the number of illegal immigrants recorded before the closure confirmed this position. She noted that there has never been legitimate transit trade between Nigeria and the two countries (Benin and Niger) For clarity, the ECOWAS protocol on transit demands that when a transit container berths at a seaport, the receiving country is mandated to escort same without tampering with the seal to the border of the destination country. Unfortunately, she explained, experience has shown that both countries do not comply with this protocol. “Rather, they break the seals of containers at their ports and trans-load goods destined for Nigeria from the original container to trucks. In most cases, five containers loaded onto one truck and duty paid as one truck,” she said.  According to her, this improper trans-loading of transit goods makes it impossible to properly examine such goods, resulting in the importation of illicit goods, including arms and ammunition, without being detected. Because goods are not examined, misclassification and a resultant loss of revenue become the ultimate consequence of this illegitimate transit trade. “One of the things that led to the border closure was is the issue of non-compliance with the ECOWAS treaty on goods coming into the country from Benin and from Niger which are supposed to be escorted to our own customs for inspections intact without breaking the seal. “As we are all aware, what has been happening is a breach of this protocol. You have containers arriving at our borders, the seal has been broken into three, four, five vehicles and the integrity of such goods are in question on that container. Not having integrity of the container means compromise of protocol more especially on issues of arms, drugs are being smuggled in. “The source of the origin of the goods are also compromised because of items being repackaged, these were some of the concerns we discovered before the federal government made up its mind to close the border. She further disclosed that there was a meeting of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), comprising Benin, Niger and Nigeria basically to address the issues concerning the joint border patrol. “By and large, what we agreed with our neighbours is to activate that joint border patrol, and that joint border patrol comprises the Customs, and other security outfits in a bid to follow up laid down protocol by the ECOWAS,” they explained, adding that the committee had a meeting on 25 and 26 of November this year with the ECOWAS protocol and they would recommend a date for the opening of the border soon.   