The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and the minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, has called for local patronage, saying the more functional markets are the brighter the economic growth of Nigerians. The duo disclosed this yesterday when they declared open the fourth edition of the Wuye Market Trade Fair organised by All Purpose Shelter Ltd, Owners of the Market, with the theme, “Ensuring Food Security for All”. The Senate President was represented by the chairman, Senate Committee on Power, Senator Gabriel Suswam. The guests were thrilled with the arrays of goods and farm produce displayed at the ongoing trade fair. Speaking at the ongoing Trade Fair at Wuye Market, Abuja, the minister of women affairs who was represented by Mrs Mary Ekpanyong, lauded the efforts of the organiser, appealing to Nigerians to patronise the fair. She urged women to take advantage of the various intervention programmes of the government to grow their businesses, assuring that they will support the trade fair. She said that ‘’micro, small and medium enterprises are the driven force of the economy.’’
In his remarks, the managing director of Abuja Investment Development Company Limited, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Pai, commended Architect Yemisi Suswam for organising the fair describing it as ‘amazing. Encouraged by the design of the market, Pai said that the Abuja Investment company would partner with private investors to build more markets in new districts of the capital city. He said, “We are having a partnership to develop markets in all the districts in Abuja, to reduce the traffic in Wuse Market. We have to engage the private sector to develop these markets. Our relationship with All Purpose Shelter is cordial. He said that they would attract private sector funding to ensure the development of these markets in the various districts. The representative of the High Commissioner of India to Nigeria said that India and Nigeria shared many things in common, adding that the theme of the fair, “Food Security” was very apt considering the impact of food to humanity. “More than 50 percent of Nigerians depend on agriculture just like India”, he stated. The managing director, All Purpose Shelter, Arch Yemisi Suswam in her speech, appreciated everyone for attending the fair, while urging them to patronise the businesses, and also appealing to the government to provide more infrastructure, especially in the transportation sector. “Whatsoever our hands find to do, let us do it with all diligence; I believe that with diligence, soon we all will be proud of our nation,” she said. She urged Nigerians to buy Nigerian made goods, saying it will, in turn, ensure food security for all.