The Magistrate Court sitting at Oke-Eda in Akure, the Ondo state capital, has remanded the founder of Sotitobire Miracle Centre, Prophet Alfa Babatunde, at Olokuta Correctional Centre over the missing one-year old boy, Gold Kolawole, a month ago. Prophet Babatunde who was brought before Magistrate Charity Adeyanju on counts of conspiracy to kidnap and aid kidnapping, was remanded with six other members of the church arraigned with him. The offence to which they were brought before the court was said to have been committed on 10th November, 2019 at about 11:45am at Sotitobire Praising Chapel at No 48 Solagbade street, Oshinle quarters Akure, Ondo state. The charge sheet reads, “That you Prophet Alfa Babatunde, Omodara Olayinka, Margret Oyebola, Grace Ogunjobi, Egunjobi Motunrayo, Esther Kayode, Peter Anjorin, and others now at large on the 10th November, 2019 at about 11:45am at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, No 48, Solagbade street Oshinle quarters Akure, Ondo state did conspire together to commit felony to wit, kidnapping and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 516 of criminal code cap 37 vol 1 laws of Ondo state”. “That you Prophet Alfa Babatunde, Omodara Olayinka, Margret Oyebola, Grace Ogunjobi, Egunjobi Motunrayo, Esther Kayode, Peter Anjorin, and others now at large on the 10th November, 2019 at about 11:45am at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, No 48, Solagbade street Oshinle quarters Akure, Ondo state did aid the kidnap of one Gold Eninlaloluwa Kolawole, aged 13 month and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 5(i) of the Ondo state anti-kidnapping and anti-abduction law, 2010”. “That you Peter Anjorin on the 10th November, 2019 at about 2pm at premises of the Department of State Services, Alagbaka, Akure did destroy evidence by secretly taking away the vital evidence that would have aided speedy investigation in respect of the missing child (Gold Eninlaloluwa Kolawole) and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 123 of criminal code cap 37 vol I laws of Ondo state 2006”. The prosecuting counsel, Mr. Joshua Dada , however, prayed the court to remand the accused persons in prison custody pending the outcome of further investigation. Dada maintained that admitting the suspects to bail would jeopardize their investigation. Counsel to the accused person, Alfa Babatunde, Barrister Olusola Oke who spoke with journalists outside after the court proceeding said, “It is important for us to bring this to the knowledge of the general public contrary to insinuation and allegation that they have shaved his beard and hair. It is obvious today that such did not happen. The prosecution presented two contradictory position and in the first instance, there was an application filed on Friday where they alleged that the man, Babatunde confessed to the allegation of kidnapping. But quiet surprising today, we challenged them to present the evidence of his confessional statement but they did not bring something like that to court”. “But at the end of the proceeding, magistrate ruled that she does not have the jurisdiction to try the alleged offences and ordered him to be remanded in prison custody pending the conclusion of investigation and obviously arraignment at the high “ However, the founder of Sotitobire Miracle Centre burst into tears as he was moved out of the court into the black maria. The court, however, adjourned till January 17, 2019, pending the conclusion of investigation.