The month of December every year, is coloured with merry making on different levels. In this report, LEADERSHIP Friday takes a look at the carnivals that make the month exciting in some parts of the country. Calabar Carnival Calabar carnival and festival is an annual event, a special and popular cultural festival that displays African culture and heritage by means of music, costume, drama and other cultural activities. The festival is a one-month event which begins on December 1 and lasts till January 1 of the next year. It holds in Calabar, capital of Cross River state Calabar Carnival, tagged ‘Africa’s Biggest Street Party, was created in 2004 by the then governor of the state, Mr. Donald Duke, as part of a vision to make the state the number one tourism destination for Nigerians and tourists the world over, as part of plans to boost the state’s economy. This year, the state celebrated the 16th edition of the yearly social event with delegates from 35 countries and 20 Nigerian states. Traditional title holders and worthy illustrious sons and daughters always partake in the carnival that attracts over two million spectators from various parts of the globe who come to watch the great cultural display. Undergoing cosmetic surgery in readiness for every year’s carnival is a necessary routine for the city capital. This involves repainting of weather-beaten public buildings, road mediums wearing new coat of paints, roundabouts decorated with velvets draperies, roadside trees adorned with rope light that twinkle all night and streets clean shaven as ever. During the famous Africa’s biggest street party, hotels in Calabar are usually fully booked as tourists both local and international flood the city to witness the star event which is the carnival float, around the city. The famous Calabar Carnival is a tourism venture that draws international awareness to the tourism potentials of the state. The exercise now occupies prominent place in the tourism calendar of the state government and by extension that of the world. The Calabar carnival allows civil servants in the state, except for those on essential duties, to start their annual leave from the day the carnival begins every year so that every citizen can have the chance to participate fully in the festivities. Programmes for the carnival are scheduled to hold on different weeks throughout the one month of the event. The millennium week for instance, is from 12 to 17, the sports week from the 19 to 24, the TINAPA Family Festival from 25 to 31 December. The Christmas village at the cultural center complex Calabar is usually in a class of its own this period. The arena by all standards is a tourist center with rows of leather are roofed huts, shopping malls, rows of modest villas, manicured arcades, net environment, police post and chilly atmosphere especially at night, with suya meat spots, stage for dancing etc., are always available at this nerve center of the celebration. All the features of a trade fair are at the village including gambling, buying and selling, advertisement of old and new products as well as rattle draws and winning of gift items.  Port Harcourt Carnival Rivers State is known as the ‘Land of a thousand Masquerades.’ With a variety of spoken languages, it is easy to discern the beauty in the diversity of its peoples. Civilisation, ancient and seemingly ageless as they are, quite simply draw attention to the richness and unspeakable eminence 0of the collective heritage of the Rivers people. Called ‘Carniriv’, it is one of the biggest festivals in Nigeria, the carnival is a blend of culture, tradition, fashion and lifestyle fused together to showcase the rich heritage of Africa. The Port Harcourt Carnival starts few weeks before Christmas and lasts for seven days. During this time, several ceremonial events are held, most of which hold some cultural and or sacred significance. The Port Harcourt Carnival bears certain uniqueness as it combines two carnivals – a purely cultural carnival and a contemporary Caribbean style carnival- in one. It also features musical performances from both local and international artists. According to the organisers, this gives it an edge over all other regional and continental carnivals and presents it with the principal advantage which must be consummately exploited. The government of Rivers State recognises Carnival as its biggest tourism export. With economic interests increasingly identifying tourism as a viable alternative to the fossil fuel economy- especially in these parts- the state government has exhibited its commitment to developing this carnival into a regionally unrivalled and globally reckoned tourist attraction. Therefore, it has always made available the necessary monetary backing needed for the event to hold every year, and has also worked hard through the Rivers State Tourism Development Agency and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to see that it is held. However, the Rivers State government cancelled this year’s edition of the Carnival. No reason was given for the cancellation.  The Experience ‘The Experience,’ acclaimed for being the biggest of its kind, is a free all-night Gospel concert with exceptional gospel music featuring some of the most celebrated recording artistes of our time. The 2019 edition tagged Experience14 held on Friday, December 12, 2019 at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan in Lagos from 7pm till dawn of Saturday, December 13. This one-of-a-kind event was birthed by the Senior Pastor of The House on The Rock, Paul Adefarasin. Now in its 14th edition in 2019, ‘The Experience’, which debuted on Friday, December 1, 2006, has since been nominated for several awards including the Concert Of The Year (AMEN Awards) – 2007 and the Award For Event Shows / Programmes Of The Year (APPOEMN) – 2017 among others. This year, The Experience was awarded ‘The Corporate Event Of The Year’ by Most Influential People of African Descent (MIPAD) and The Event Of Excellence Award by African Gospel Music and Media Awards (AGMMA) among others. With several hundreds of thousands of people in attendance from all over the globe, ‘The Experience’ Lagos lived up to its stellar reputation as the largest gospel concert held in Africa and arguably, the world. Known for reinventing itself, this year’s edition was highly anticipated. The event featured award-winning artistes such as Travis Greene, Sinach, Nathaniel Bassey, Don Moen, Donnie McClurkin, Tope Alabi, Planetshakers, Chioma Jesus, Eben, Onos, Sammie Okposo and many others including several newcomers to ‘The Experience’ stage namely Todd Dulaney, Mercy Chinwo and Preye Odede.  Abuja Carnival Abuja Carnival is no doubt, the biggest carnival in Nigeria. It is an annual event that showcases the rich cultural values of the Nigerian nation and reflects the diversity of ethnic expressions in Nigeria. It is a city carnival that is supported by the Nigerian Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and usually organised by the Carnival Roadshow Company. The carnival usually comes up in the month of December and it’s one of the best cultural events in the country. This may come as a surprise, but the Abuja Carnival is not an Abuja “thing” – it is celebrated by about 35 states in Nigeria with about five neighbouring African countries coming down to participate in the largest carnival event in Nigeria. The fact remains that over 2 million people attend the Abuja carnival, and over 300,000 participants entertain people to their heart’s content. There is an array of colours and costumes that can only be found in Nigeria and Africa, and that represent the ideals of the Nigerian people. The Abuja carnival is a rich blend of cultural and ethnic events to show the wealthy heritage of the people of Nigeria. It features the durbar where riders decked in traditional costumes and bearing swords act out a war performance. There is also a boat regatta, traditional music and dance, a cultural parade, and indigenous circus show among others. The Abuja carnival is usually organised by the Carnival Roadshow Company, and the Abuja Carnival Management Committee as well as supported by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism under the auspices of the federal government. That is correct; the Abuja carnival show is one place to witness exotic and bizarre entertainers. Here you see fire-eaters, acrobats and gymnasts, magicians and jugglers, live animal handlers, and comedians and jesters, among others. However, the show has also been called off for this year.