Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State flags off ‘Operation Zero Pothole’ in Jos, the state capital to ensure easy movement of vehicles . Achor Abimaje reports. Residents of Plateau State and visitors to the state are beginning to feel the impact of the state government, as it is doing what is expected of any good government, that is providing good roads critical to development. Upon assumption of office, Governor Lalong decided to complete about 28 abandoned road projects that he  inherited from the last administration. His intervention saw contractors going back to site. Indeed, some of these roads have been completed and commissioned while others are still ongoing at a slow speed. Governor Simon Lalong while speaking during the flag off of road rehabilitation said he had  directed the Ministry of Works to warn all erring contractors to return to site within 14 days or have their contracts terminated and re-awarded to more committed contractors. According to him, it is one thing to expend funds in building road infrastructure, while it is an entirely different ball game in getting quality delivery and maintaining them for the benefit of the citizens. He pointed out that despite their  efforts, they  have seen the wear and tear of the roads which have caused hardship to motorists and commuters in many townships  particularly the Jos – Bukuru metropolis. “That is why at the inauguration of commissioners, I directed the Ministry of Works to implement zero tolerance to pot holes in the State to prevent them from further damage as well as enhance the convenience of motorists. “ Today’s event, which is the flag off of ‘Operation Zero Potholes’ within the Jos – Bukuru Metropolis therefore kick-starts the implementation of this directive. We intend to sustain this and ensure that it goes round the major townships in the 17 local government areas of the state. One of our 3 –point policy thrust is physical infrastructural development, we don’t intend to only build infrastructure in the state, but shall continue working hard to maintain them. We cannot afford to let these road infrastructure decay to the point that they become a burden and threat to lives of our people. “Henceforth, we will make sure we arrest any road deterioration early in order to sustain the lifespan of our roads and other infrastructure. At the same time, government will henceforth not tolerate the culture of neglect and abuse of public infrastructure which has contributed to the level of wear and tear we are experiencing today. “We have also noted with dismay the flagrant misuse and abuse of these critical infrastructure through illegal erection of road bumps. Government has also noticed the use of the roadway for mixing concrete, dumping of construction materials and most worrisome, trading,” he stated. Lalong added  that “it is unfortunate that these abuses are prevalent on Ahmadu Bello Way, Terminus, Bauchi road, Kabong, Farin Gada, Kugiya in Bukuru to mention a few. No responsible Government will sit and watch this lawless behavior”,  saying  he had directed with immediate effect, the constitution of a high-powered Special Task Force that will rid our roads of street traders, illegal road bumps, illegal motor parks as well as check indiscriminate parking of cars and trucks within our roadways, especially at Dadin Kowa, Mai Adiko and other areas. “On  an auspicious occasion such as this, let me mention that the solar street lights we have so far put in place are not only to beautify the metropolis, but also guarantee security. These solar street lights cost a lot of money and are appreciated and commended by the citizens,”he said. He lamented that it is  unfortunate that reports reaching him indicated the destruction of some of the streetlights by reckless drivers and some vandals, emphasising, “Since these lights are installed to serve the public, let me again warn that any road user that knocks down a streetlight, as well as vandals arrested will be made to pay the full cost of replacing it among other penalties the courts will hand down. I call on members of the public to report to the relevant authorities, anyone who knocks down or attempts to vandalise these street lights so as to guard our collective assets. If you see something, say something.” He said government is also aware of community efforts to intervene in maintaining some road infrastructure within their domains. “We appreciate your efforts and assure you of support especially if you properly and legitimately collaborate with the relevant agency. There is no doubt that the demands for roads and other physical infrastructure are huge and the resources not sufficient. However, I have promised that we shall utilize the little resources judiciously to get value for money. “ I want to emphasise that the rehabilitation of roads and construction of new ones will be a continuous one. I expect the Ministry of Works to be proactive and create good relationship with the public for information gathering and feedback. “I strongly advise and call on the general public to have a change of orientation to public property. When we treat public property as nobody’s property, decay and abuse become inevitable and the society loses at the end.” In his remark ,  the state’s  commissioner for works, Pam Bot-mang said  the state government inherited a total number of 28 projects from the previous administration and has completed some, while others are at advanced levels of completion. According to him, the scope of the work will cover 46 roads with a total of approximately 63 Kilometres at the cost of N1.9 billion. He said government is determined to reposition the state on the path of sustainable development, disclosing that Governor Lalong had, after his victory at the polls for second term, constituted a high- powered committee  to prepare a blue print toward consolidating on the gains of the rescue administration. According to him, as a member of the committee, they traversed every local government to access ongoing projects, their level of completion, payment made and outstanding cost for completion. He said the committee recommended that there was the need to empower Plateau state road maintenance agency to embark on spontaneous road rehabilitation and maintenance across the state in line with the mandate establishing the agency. Recall Governor Simon Lalong during his swearing of commissioners made a pronouncement with regards to ‘Operation Zero Pothole’. Furthermore, the Boston consulting group which developed a strategic development plan for the state also recommended agressive road rehabilitation and maintenance programme. The commissioner added that consequent upon all these, the ministry immediately carried out condition survey of all the roads within townships, noting that the roads assessed form major economic corridors within the metropolis, while the roads assessed were costed for patching, rehabilitation and overlay of the failed section. He  said the state government awarded 25 new road projects out of which three have been completed while others are at various stages of completion, lamenting that due to lack of sustainable mechanism that will guarantee periodic and routine maintenance of completed roads, they quickly become deplorable. “ It is in the light of this, that the ministry of Works in it’s 2019 to 2023 medium term sector strategy MTSS proposed reforms within the road sector that will crystalize in the creation of road maintenance fund and road board in line with global best practices. This fund if put in place, will be managed by a road board which will consist of private sector and critical stakeholders,” he disclosed.