Residents of Orin Ekiti in Ido-Osi local government area of Ekiti state, yesterday protested against invasion of their farmlands by suspected herdsmen. The people, who alleged that the herders were making attempts to forcefully take over their lands, said crops worth over N50 million in farms  belonging to  70 farmers had so far been destroyed. The protesters, comprising old and young men and wome , regretted that the suspected herdsmen allegedly killed one Emmanuel Ilori and chased away scores of Benue farmers from the town . Placards with the following inscriptions : “Save Our Lives We are in danger in Orin Ekiti’ , ‘Save Orin Ekiti from Herdsmen invasion’, ‘We are Tired of molestation by Herdsmen’, ‘We Won’t Allow Fulani to Chase us from Our Land’, ‘Government Must Relocate Fulani Herdsmen’, among others were displayed by the protesters to register their displeasure over the development. The Onikare of Orin Ekiti, Chief Bamidele Fasuyi, while addressing journalists on the matter alleged that the herders, had occupied and destroyed crops planted on the abandoned 2500 acres of land at Orin Farm settlement. “What they wanted is to invade our land and chase us away. They even killed one of our able bodied men this year. They are imposing some curfew in this town, because our youths can’t go to farm freely and government has not been doing something. Several hectares of land had been destroyed. They used to operate at night with AK 47 rifle. “Over 70 farmers were affected in our record. Crops worth 50 million have been ravaged. They ate up their products like Cocoayam, yam, cassava and others and made them to incur debts. “We appeal to government to use the 2500 acres of land for farming. The state and federal government as well as private bodies should come to our aid. There were facilities like electricity, buildings and equipment that can aid farming if they want to invest “. A youth leader, Mr. Omotoso Mathew Kayode, alleged that the suspected herders, had hoisted a flag at the farm settlement, where they warned the farmers to keep off or face death.