The chairman, Senate Committee on Employment, Labour Productivity, Benjamin Uwajumogu is dead. The Senator who represented Imo North Senatorial district in the National Assembly died in Abuja at the age of 51. Uwajumogu was a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Reacting to the demise of  Uwajumogu, Senator Elisha Abbo (Adamawa North) said: “I can confirm that my colleague and brother, Ben Uwajumogu has left us to be with the Lord,” “Its a call for sober reflection. It’s a clear indication that this world is like market and when you come you will go back home. Ben has come to the market, he has behaved well and gone back to account for his good deeds on earth.” Also, the minority leader of the Senate, Senator Ennyinnaya Abaribe, in his reaction, described the death of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu as a huge loss to Nigeria, Imo State and his constituents. “I am saddened by his death. It is very sad that he died at this time. Ben was simply a good fellow, an erudite legislator, a fine gentleman, a loving husband and father. “He is indeed a Senator of Nigeria, very patriotic. He straddled the Senate isles beyond partisan inclinations. We shall sorely miss him”, Abaribe said. Meanwhile, the president of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has expressed shock and sadness over the tragic news of the death of Senator Uwajumogu. Lawan commiserated with the family of the deceased senator and the government and people of Imo State over the tragic loss. He also condoled with distinguished senators and friends of the departed senator. He recalled that Senator Uwajumogu was full of life at the Senate Chamber on Tuesday, which made the news of his death even more difficult to take. “Senator Uwajumogu’s sudden death is  shocking and a painful loss to the ninth National Assembly where he always made robust contributions to the debates and other activities of the Upper legislative chamber. He will be greatly missed by all of us his colleagues and staff of the Senate,” Lawan said.