Vice president, Mben Political Assembly (MPA), Ukpai Iro Ukpai has faulted Nkiruka Onyejeocha, the member representing Umunneochi/Isuikwuato Federal Constituency at the National Assembly on her position on where Abia state next governor should emerge from. Iro Ukpai stated this in an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP in Umuahia, the state capital while reacting to the stand of Onyejeocha that it is the turn of the old Isuikwuato District (the constituency) to occupy the position after Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in 2023. He argued that the stand is not borne out of the spirit of the prevailing Abia Chater of Equity (ACE) which stipulates that the office should rotate among the three senatorial zones of the state namely, North, Central, and South. He also said it amounts to changing district for zone as the basis for the ACE, “It suggests the use of acronyms, and not the existing order of zones as basis for the ACE. The change will make their demand misaligned with the letters of the ACE.” He explained that, “The equitable zoning of political positions has never been based on old districts. The central is comprised of old Aba Division and old Bende Division while the north is made up of the old Bende Division and old Isuikwuato District. “When Orji Uzor Kalu of old Bende held the office from 1999-2007, he was there for the north and not for Old Bende. Our Isuikwuato brothers knew that much, otherwise they should have resisted the position going to the central afterall “I” follows “B” in Abia or precedes “A”. “Similarly, for the central, it was for candidates from old Aba and old Bende. Abians did not hand it over to old Aba represented by letter “A”. T.A Orji from old Bende won and occupied it from 2007 to 2015 for the zone, not for old Bende represented by letter “B”. “Our Isuikwuato brothers never told us then that the district “I” has been left behind. Why are they rising up now to sell the idea of district instead of zone to campaign for the position if they are interested in it as the MPA has been doing for Ohafia Udemeze.” “This sounds like a ploy to shift the north’s turn to occupy the position come 2023 to Isuikwuato by all means. This Isuikwuato and  Onyejeocha idea is new to the letters of the ACE. Their position is apperently not in tandem with the ACE as they claim.” He further puntured the claim by the lawmaker and others that the constituency is maginalized, saying , “It is an undisputable fact that people of Isuikwuato extraction have held more political positions in both old Imo and Abia states than those of Ohafia Udumeze “Rather than crying marginalization, we have been consistent in supporting other clans to occupy those positions. Senators Ike Nwachukwu, Uche Chukwumerije and many others from the district, too numerous to mention, benefitted from our support. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain also condemned those who have been suggesting that any of the zones are free to contest the position, saying their position that the present occupier of the office, the south is also free to recontest is unacceptable. The member of Ohafia Udumeze’s political Think Tank, therefore maintained that abandoning the ACE for random jumbing from one zone to another could led to political disequilibrum in the system where some zones may have to wait more that 16 years before to occupy the position. “We should in our interest for the peace, stability and development of the state continue with the present order instead of starting a new system which will not gurranttee equal hope for every segment of the state to attain the coverted position freely,” the vice president added.