The minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, says the decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to reduce the cost of electronic cash transactions and Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card maintenance fees would boost the country’s economy. Pantami said that the apex bank’s measure would contribute to the actualisation of a digital economy, as lower service charges would encourage a higher patronage of electronic services, especially in the banking and financial services sector. The minister, in a statement issued by his media aide, Mrs. Uwa Suleiman, he urged all decision-making institutions in the country to enact policies that would promote the digital economy policy of President Muhammadu Buhari. Pantami said that “this directive from the regulator of the financial sector will in no small measure contribute to the actualisation of a digital economy, as lower service charges will encourage a higher patronage of electronic services, especially in the banking and financial services sector. Meanwhile, the federal government has condemned the N50 stamp duty imposed on consumers for Point Of Sales (POS) transactions. The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), which spoke on the matter, explained that it had engaged the CBN and both had agreed that the charge was counterproductive and burdensome. FCCPC chief executive officer, Babatunde Irukera, said that to impose an additional fee on consumers that is exclusive of price and discriminates based on the selected mode of payment essentially amounts to a penalty for the adopted mode of payment. Irukera said in a statement on Tuesday that businesses already captured the operating cost price of their goods and services, adding that “the problems associated with carrying excessive cash in order to avoid a penalty are myriad and multifaceted. “Accordingly, the commission welcomes the CBN’s definitive statement on December 23, 2019, clarifying its September 17, 2019 directive by Circular Ref. PSM/Dir/CON/02/015 that the directive did not intend to pass such fees to consumers. “This makes it inappropriate and illegal for businesses to pass a stamp duty cost of doing their business to consumers,” he said. The commission, therefore, ordered business owners to stop the N50 charge and threatened severe consequences should they default.