Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, has declared that he is ready to break toes to serve the ordinary people of the state. Makinde, who stated this while speaking at the thanksgiving service to mark his 52nd birthday said he would continue to fight on the side of the ordinary people. The governor’s chief press secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa in a statement, said the governor, who clocked 52 on Christmas Day, made the declaration during his Birthday Thanksgiving Service held at St Peter’s Cathedral, Aremo, Ibadan. According to him, his determination to render service to the ordinary people informed his decision to declare free and qualitative education in the state adding that education remains the surest way to lift people out of poverty. “If I can be who I am today, then no child should be left behind in Oyo State. And that explains my passion for education. Once we give education to our children, the sky is their starting point”, he said. He stated that he never thought he would live up to 30 and that he had remained grateful to God every year he has lived beyond 30. “I thought I will join the Army, fight for my country and possibly get killed and that may be the end of the story. So for me, every year I have lived above 30 years is like a bonus,” he said. The governor who maintained that he was getting more matured at 52 appreciated everyone who has made impact on his life, even as he expressed appreciation to the people of Oyo State, without whom he said he would not have been able to achieve anything in the last six months of his tenure as governor. He said: “There is nothing really much to say; today is my birthday and I am getting matured. Quite frankly, I never thought I would live up to 30. I have a friend here and every time we were talking, we always thought that we would go into the Army, fight, get killed and that would be the end of our story. “We actually went for recruitment into the Army but were rejected. But today, we are seeing Seyi Makinde at 52 and all I can do is to give thanks to God. “When we were going through the electioneering period, people said the political terrain here is rough, and I could get killed. So, I looked at myself and said that I could take the risk since I am more than 30 because I had always believed that anything I have after 30 would be like a bonus to me. “That is why without looking back, I will continue to serve the people of Oyo State, without minding whose toe I will step on. Truth is, I will break some toes if I really have to and will continue to fight for the ordinary people of this state.” He added: “My story won’t be complete without all of you and I thank you all. Today is the first time I am celebrating my birthday like this. In the area I grew up, the first time they would bring a cake for somebody’s birthday was when the last child of my family, Iyabo, celebrated her birthday. My parents kept delivering male children until they got to the fifth one. “I remember after the delivery of the fifth child, who happened to be a female, my mother, in the labour room, was shouting for everyone to hear that she had a female child. For her, it was special treatment. “Some of us who stayed in the area where I grew up, we used to eat in a communal setting. So, when they brought the cake for her birthday, it was strange to us and we suddenly rushed it. My mum cried that day. That was the kind of environment where I grew up. “So, if I can be who I am today, then no child should be left behind in Oyo State. And that explains my passion for education. Once we give education to our children, the sky is their starting point.”