Members of the Natural Oil and Gas Suppliers Association of Nigeria (NOGASA) have reaffirmed their commitment to partner with governments at all levels on combating adulteration of petroleum products in Nigeria. National Public Relations Officer of NOGASA, Chief Chinedu Ukadike, made this known in a statement issued at the weekend in Abuja following the inauguration of the executive councils of Kaduna, Anambra and Abia States recently. He quoted the national president of NOGASA, Mr Benneth Korie, to have made the promise in his address while inaugurating the councils. According to him Korie who was represented by Mr Tunde David, the secretary-general of NOGASA also promised to tackle vandalism of petroleum pipelines. “We are here today to formally establish our association in Kaduna; it is indeed a noble platform for the processes of supplies of petroleum products distribution in the state. “Our objective as widely advertised is to ensure petroleum product supplies are carried out under ethical standards nationwide and for suppliers to operate in peaceful environment while doing their businesses. He further said NOGASA is here to promote uprightness, nobility and integrity in the activities of petroleum product supplies. “We therefore reach-out to all stakeholders, especially governments and security agencies, to join hands with us to collectively sanitise the industry and make the environment more conducive for all Nigerians.” He also quoted Korie to have said that the association was inaugurated in Anambra to promote ease of oil and gas business in the state. According to him, we are here today to replicate our state council office in Akwa, Anambra state, NOGASA is implanting its name and administrative pillars in every Nigerians state capital. “As an enviable association it is our desire to ensure that our members indeed engage in this global business to the best means.” He further mentioned that the association would break new grounds in its cause for better and more resourceful representative platforms of petroleum products suppliers in Abia and Nigeria at large.