Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, yesterday said his administration carefully prepared the year 2020 Appropriation Bill to block leakages and systemic corruption within the civil bureaucracy and governance process. The governor stated this yesterday while hosting the Transparency and Accountability Network (TAN) and other civil society Abeokuta, in commemoration of the International Anti-Corruption Day. The governor, who spoke through his chief economic adviser, Dapo Okubadejo, explained that his administration has put in place, institutional frameworks to checkmate efforts at perpetuating financial malfeasances that may compromise due process. He further stated that by the introduction of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), State Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability Programme for Result (SFTAS) and the introduction and application of the Public Procurement Law, official corruption and sharp practices in public financial management in the state would be curbed. He noted that these mechanisms are fool-proofed not that they also form part of international best practices and his government determination to ensure accountability and zero-tolerance for corruption. “We have zero tolerance for corruption. Some of the things this administration is doing to ensure zero tolerance for corruption include the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which is the process for budgeting and planning. It is one in which plans are done over a medium term and from which the annual budget is derived. “The governor is committed to financial transparency, accountability, we are also adopting what is called SFTAS, State Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability Program for Result. What it means is that all the activities of government are put in public domain. We are also implementing the Public Procurement Law. Through the Procurement Law, we are going to ensure that we get real value for projects, the process for contract awards, procuring resources for the benefit of the state is done transparently and in line with global best practices.” Indian Businessman, Bankers Bag 5-Years Jail For N855m Fraud BY OLUGBENGA SOYELE, Lagos Justice Kudirat Jose of the Lagos State High Court sitting in Igbosere, yesterday convicted and sentenced an Indian  businessman, Ashok Israni and two top officials of Bank PHB (now Keystone Bank), Anayo Nwosu and Olajide Oshodi to five years imprisonment for N855m fraud. Justice Jose also jailed NULEC Industries Limited belonging to Israni and Keystone Bank Limited. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had arraigned the convicts alongside one Sunny Obazee on an amended 15-count charge bordering on conspiracy and obtaining by false presence to the tune of N855million. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against by them by the EFCC, thereby leading to their full trial. During the course of the trial, the prosecution counsel, Rotimi Jacobs, (SAN) presented witnesses and tendered several documents that were admitted in evidence by the court. Delivering her judgment, Justice Jose discharged and acquitted the fourth defendant, Obazee. The Judge, however, convicted and sentenced the first, second and third defendants to five years imprisonment each on counts 1, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10 and 13 of stealing. The companies were also ordered to pay a fine of N20 million to the Federal Government on counts 1, 10 and 13. The Judge also ordered the convicts to restitute the sum of N395 million to the victim of the fraud. One of the counts reads: “That you, Anayo Nwosu, Ashok Israni, Olajide Oshodi, Sunny Obazee, Bank PHB Plc/Keystone Bank Ltd and NULEC Industries Limited, between 14 July and 31st July, 2008, in Lagos within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did fraudulently convert to your use the sum of N285, 000, 000.00 (Two Hundred and Eighty-Five Million Naira) being the property of Dozzy Oil and Gas Ltd, when you credited the account of NULEC with the said sum to defray its debt owed to Bank PHB Plc as against paying the sum into the Private Placement Account of NULEC, which sum was to be used as payment for the purchase of shares of NULEC Industries Limited under a Private Placement.” Another count reads: “That you, Anayo Nwosu, Ashok Israni, Olajide Oshodi, Sunny Obazee, Bank PHB Plc/Keystone Bank Ltd and NULEC Industries Limited, sometime in 2008 within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with intent to defraud, obtained the sum of N855, 000, 000.00 (Eight Hundred and Fifty-Five Million Naira) from Dozzy Oil and Gas Ltd, on the false pretence that NULEC Industries Limited was in active profit making manufacturing and trading activities, thereby purporting same to be payment for the purchase of shares of the said NULEC Industries Limited under a Private Placement.” Lagos: We Are Guided By The Rules, Says PDP By Chibuzo Ukaibe Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said it has noted a media publication by a former national deputy chairman of our party, Chief Olabode George, wherein he reportedly made some allegations against the Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC), with regard to the election of the Lagos State Executive Committee. A statement by the party’s national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said  perusing the said publication, it is easily decipherable by all informed members and critical stakeholders that Chief George mixed up issues. “We believe he did this  inadvertently, and unfortunately came to an erroneous conclusion, probably because he does not have the correct facts on the matter at hand. “For the avoidance of doubt, the NWC wishes to state that the process that produced the elected Adedeji Doherty-led Lagos State Executive Committee followed all due process as stipulated by the PDP Constitution, the Party Guidelines, the Electoral Act; and without any whimsical interference by the national leadership. “All actions taken by our members in Lagos in filling vacancies left either by resignations, defections and or death of occupants of those offices followed due process. “It was a collective decision of the majority of our members in the state taken in a determination to reposition our party for the challenges ahead; a development which ought to be commended by well-meaning leaders and members of our party. “Nigerians, especially, Lagosians, are aware that PDP members and her supporters are in the majority in the state but have wondered over the years why the fortunes of the  party have not measured up to her numerical strength in successive general elections. “No responsible and meaningful national party leadership and committed followership would allow a promising state chapter of her party, like the PDP, to be eternally polarized, balkanized and stifled, through continuous decimation of her membership due to unwarranted wrangling.” The PDP therefore called on all critical stakeholders and teeming members in Lagos state to close ranks, put aside all personal and parochial interests and work with the newly elected leadership to strengthen the party and provide Lagosians that credible platform to rescue their state from the strangulating and exploitative regime of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Indeed, Nigerians are looking up to our party for solutions and we must not fail them in getting the stage ready for the collective quest to retrieve the reins of governance from the anti-people, oppressive, incompetent, corrupt and vindictive APC at all levels,” the party said.