Amid the intense blame game on Nigeria’s rising debt profile, the Debt Management Office (DMO) has said that the country’s total public debt stock was $63.81 billion at June 30, 2015 when the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led federal government was barely a month in office. The administration of President Muhmammadu Buhari, which replaced the People’s Democratic Party (PDP’s) 16-year rule, was inaugurated on May 29, 2015. Since leaving office, the PDP, now in the opposition has virulently accused the current administration of uncontrolled borrowing, thereby raising the country’s debt stock. But the DMO yesterday clarified that the debt stock was already high before the party left office. According to the agency, the figure was a far cry from what the former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafiya, claimed on a live programme on Channels Television recently. Mailafiya had said that the APC government inherited a debt stock of less than $7 billion in 2015, which he asserted, had risen to $84 billion. In a statement it issued in Abuja, yesterday, the DMO said that “we wish to state that the purported claim is totally incorrect and not supported by public debt data that is readily available on the website of the Debt Management Office. “Contrary to the claim by Dr. Mailafiya, the total public debt stock as at June 30, 2015 (shortly after the current administration came into office) was $63.81 billion, and not $7 billion as claimed by Dr. Obadiah,“ the DMO said in a statement. Similarly, the debt office said that the nominal increase in the public debt stock between June 30, 2015 ($63.81 billion) and June 30, 2019 ($83.88 billion), was about $20 billion, „which is a far cry from the gross misrepresentation made at the live programme on Channels TV that the public debt stock increased by $77 billion during this period.“ The DMO explained that the public debt stock data published by it comprises those of the federal government, the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It maintained that it was erroneous to attribute the growth in the debt stock to borrowings by the federal government only. The agency, however, said that while the debt stock had increased, the rise is well guided by the objectives of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and the Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy, 2016-2019. DMO said that new borrowing was included as one of the strategies in the ERGP to be deployed in the near term to stimulate economic growth and job creation. It noted that with the deployment of more funds into capital projects, the borrowing contributed to job creation and the recovery from economic recession in June 2017, adding that the introduction of project-tied financing products (Sukuk and Green Bonds) in the second half of 2017 as part of the new borrowing also supported infrastructural development. By international benchmarks, Nigeria’s total debt relative to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is sustainable at 18.99 per cent of GDP as at June 30, 2019. However, the government recognises that the ratio of its debt service to revenue is rather high, a situation that is directly attributable to the country’s low revenues. This is clearly evident from the tax-to-GDP ratio of six per cent in 2018. It is for this reason that the federal government developed and is implementing a number of strategies to enhance its revenues significantly. The Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative introduced in January 2019 and more recently, the Finance Bill are some of the measures adopted by the government to check the trend. It is expected that these efforts would substantially enhance the government’s revenue and thus, bring down the ratio of debt service to revenue, the DMO said. “It is also expedient to highlight the need for the government’s recent request for approval of the $22.718 billion Medium-Term External Borrowing Plan, 2016-2018 (outstanding from the $29.96 billion previously submitted) by the National Assembly. “The proposed loans which are meant to finance critical infrastructure, will be mostly sourced from the multilateral and bilateral windows, and are project-tied. The loans come with cheaper financing terms namely: low interest rates, longer tenors and ample grace periods. These proposed loans, which are concessional and semi-concessional, are more cost efficient and would facilitate infrastructural development which in turn would create new jobs; improve the quality of life and make Nigeria more competitive for business. It is instructive to note that the proposed external borrowing plan also includes the external funding needs of the states and the FCT,“ the DMO said.