The Nigerian capital market is believed to have opened up multiple options for securities dealers in Nigeria as stockbrokers await the take-off of demutualization of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). At the last count, the Capital Market boasts of Over-The-Counter (OTC) exchange with the emergence of NASD Plc and FMDQ which has become a full-fledged exchange. Besides, the Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange (LCFE) is expected to commence operations soon as a Pan African Exchange, among others. Prompted by inquiries from the media, the chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Oyinyechukwu Ezeagu, described the development as heartwarming, saying it had brought multiple income streams to stockbrokers’ table.  “The new trend in the financial market is that operators have multiple options for professional practice. These go along with multiple income streams on the table of market operators. We are looking at a broad range of markets and the readiness of operators to participate in these markets. “We have seen an expansion in fixed income investments, in Government Securities and renewed interests in the commodities Market. The listing of two telecommunications companies excited the market within the year,” said Ezeagu. According to him, equity market represents the market of the real owners of the firm, taking into consideration the features of the theoretical common stock and the performance of the equity market in Nigeria is not different from its worldwide nature of performance. Ezeagu noted that equities had been dwindling all over the world becoming enigmatic for traders who could not keep up with continuous price volatility, especially, where other asset classes like fixed income proved better alternatives. Speaking on the implications, he said, “This has serious implications to the operators who hold equities as part of their capital, they have to contend with pressures from regulators to maintain the minimum regulatory capital requirement. On the part of investors, there is a renewal of the age-long attitude to buy and hold which also impacts on market liquidity. However, with the recent pronouncement by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), equities market seems to have responded positively.” Recently, capital market operators urged the federal government to engage capital market professionals as a strategy to strengthen the relationship between the government and the market.