Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri Monday flagged off distribution of Automated Teller Machines ATM cards and disbursement of stipend to the poor, vulnerable households and insurgency victims in various camps and host communities. The programme which is under the Youth Employment and Social Support Operation YESSO was disbursed to over twenty three thousand beneficiaries categorised into Public Work Fare PWF, Targeted Grand Transfer TGT and Special Grant Transfer SGT. The beneficiaries under PWF will be collecting monthly stipend of seven thousand five hundred naira and TGT will get basic transfer of thirty thousand naira while the SGT will be getting quarterly stipend of twenty thousand naira. Speaking during the event held at the Civic Centre Michika, Governor Umaru Fintiri thanked the lauded the Federal Government and World Bank for establishing the pro-poor programme which he described as timely as it will assist members of the downtrodden. He revealed that state government has already released the counterpart funding for the programme, in addition his administration strongly believes that government will cushion vulnerable condition of youths, old age, the sick, the disabled and unemployed. The Governor declared that government will continue to protect citizens from violence adding that it will provide public goods at a level necessary to ensure a globally competitive economy and a well functioning society. Governor Umaru Fintiri stressed that the creation of State Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, Reintegration and Humanitarian Services was to effectively coordinate government activities in the area of social protection programmes. In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary State Planning Commission, Mrs Felisha Nzomosaki commended Governor Umaru Fintiri for granting approval to payment of twenty nineteen counterpart fund for YESSO project in the state. The State Coordinator of YESSO Mr Kwaji Duguri said the the state unit register has a total household list of seventy two thousand, two hundred and twenty six with the individual member of three hundred and eight thousand, six hundred and ninety seven from the twenty one local government areas of Adamawa. Earlier, the Executive Chairman Michika Mr Michel Shehu disclosed that the people of Michika have suffered a lot of setbacks during the insurgency period and expressed their happiness for the assistance. Mohammed Hammanjoda a beneficiary thanked YESSO, World Bank and state government for the assistance and promised that they will utilize the money judiciously for the purpose intended.##