An academic don / former Provost of the Cross River College of Education (COE) Akamkpa, Prof. Anthony Owan Enoh has decried the falling standard of education in Nigeria challenging the management of tertiary institutions across the country of not doing enough the salvage the situation. In a post combined convocation lecture interview about the college with journalists in Calabar, former college of Education COE Akamkpa, Provost, Prof. Anthony Owan Enoh stated the unless something is urgently done to salvage the situation, institutions of higher learning in Nigeria would continue to churn out poor quality graduates who would find it difficult to cope with challenges associated with the labor market. Enoh who spoke on the topic, ‘Quality assurance and the architecture of educational excellence called for all hands to be on deck so that the cankerworm  of poor quality education can be kick out from the system. Enoh who doubles as immediate past Vice Chancellor of Cross River University of Technology CRUTECH, has charged institutions of higher learning to shun attitude that compromises that quality of education so that Nigeria can put an end to the churning out of poor quality graduates. He advocates for stiffer penalties against lecturers who see trading of grades for money as the only way to survival and called for stiffer penalties against erring lecturers so as to serve as deterrent to others. He charged the  managers of  institutions of higher learning to rise up to the occasion and  put an  end to  the ugly trend  which if not stopped may put Nigerian graduates who go out to other countries in sear h of greener pastures in jeopardy. The ex-VC identified shoddy management of academic matters as being responsible for falling standard of education in Nigeria stressing if educational matters were given priority attention, the nation stand a chance to churn high quality graduates despite the kind of libraries and laboratories the schools may have. He warned against the culture of sorting which according to him if not check may end up destroy the entire educational sector and called for urgent steps to be taken so as to halt the ugly trend. His words : “Why are we  unconsciously converting  our huge beautiful looking libraries/ laboratories buildings  to mere  ornaments, examination to mere formalities, project writing to mere rituals, lecture attendance to a matter of choice, above all certificate we offer to a mere piece of paper without substance? He said that when lecturers allow students to “sort” aside becoming incapable of the required contribution to national development expected of them, the teacher and student end up losing their integrity. “Anyone who sorted, altered students’ scores, tied examination scores to purchase of his textbook or handouts, who rarely lectured students, doctored continuous assessment scores is unfit for appointment as provost, Rector, VC or principal of a school.” Other vices mentioned by  the former VC as  being responsible for low  quality of education in the country, includes  “sorting”, falsification of continuous assessment scores, examination malpractice, linking award of examination scores to purchase of handouts and textbooks. He called for measure to be put on ground by management of all tertiary institutions in the country in order to achieve quality education which can facilitate national development. The former CRUTE’CH VC stressed that if educational excellence is to be achieved, promotion of academic staff should not only be based on competence alone, but academic staff should be rated on the basis of their integrity. Enoh who stressed on the need for quality education, enumerated pacific issues which has bedeviled the nation’s system to  includes, “sorting” for grades  and lack of respect for time. Other issues responsible for low quality of education includes, multiple examinations conducted by schools, alteration of results and issuance of results to individuals who didn’t complete their programs. 