Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has described the recent media attacks on him by his Bayelsa State counterpart, Governor Henry Seriake Dickson, over the Soku Oil Wells, as a sign of frustration. Wike, who disclosed this yesterday during a media chat at Government House, Port Harcourt, said the frustration allegedly being suffered by Dickson is self-inflicted. The governor said: “I read Governor Dickson’s outburst on almost all national dailies today. I also watched it on television last night. As a governor, there are some levels you cannot descend to. “It is unfortunate that frustration can lead to a lot of things. God will never allow me to get to that level. I understand the frustration, it was self-inflicted. Nobody inflicted the frustration on him.” He challenged the Bayelsa State Governor, to a debate on projects executed in the eight local government areas of that state, compared to the projects he has executed in the 23 local government areas of Rivers State. Wike said: “If truly he is an Ijaw person, which of the Ijaw land am I causing disharmony. That I am protecting what belongs to Rivers people and you are coming to take it. Between us, who is causing disharmony? Before you said I have not done anything for Ijaw communities, let’s start from your state, you have been in government for eight years and I have been in government for four and half years, let’s check the projects in the two states. “Akuku-Toru is an Ijaw local government area, let him go there and see what I am doing. Asari-Toru is an Ijaw local government area, let him go there and see our projects there. Bonny and Andoni are Ijaw local government areas, let him go there and see our projects. “Bayelsa has only eight local government areas and Rivers State has 23. There is no local government area in Rivers State that does not have my project. Let him mention the projects in his eight local government areas. “Go to Yenagoa, there is no street light. Once you enter Bayelsa State, you will see only heaps of refuse. Am I the one underdeveloping Ijaw land? He claimed that he built airport with N70 billion.” “He will leave office in next one and half months, and the airport is not working. N70billion will do a lot of things for the people of Bayelsa State. “He converted Government House started by late Alamieyeseigha into a hotel. Dickson lacks class. Let him come and challenge me in a debate on the projects he did in the eight local government areas in Bayelsa State. We cannot be compared in terms of project execution. “I don’t have any oil war with any state but I will not allow anybody take what belongs to Rivers State. I don’t go to see the President at night. I don’t negotiate that EFCC should not arrest me. I don’t shout federal might and say another thing tomorrow.” Narrating the issues that left his administration with no other choice than to approach the Federal High Court for interpretation of the 2010 ruling of the Supreme Court, the governor said the National Boundaries Commission (NBC) failed to fulfill its promise to correct the error in the boundary between Rivers and Bayelsa states. The governor said: “In 2002, we found out that NBC altered the map and put the boundary at St. Bartholomew. When NBC admitted that they made an error, we said there is no need continuing at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court judge struck out our matter in 2012 and advised NBC to go and correct the error. “After seven years, we approached the Court again, having found out that NBC did not correct the error. We only approached the Federal High Court for interpretation of the Supreme Court ruling. Judgement has been given, if you are not satisfied, you should go on appeal. I have a contract with Rivers.”  