Yobe state Governor Hon. Mai Mala Buni, has flags off the annual mass Animal vaccination campaign for 2019 at Ngelzarma Town of Fune local government Area of the state. The Governor was represented by his Deputy Hon. Idi Barde Gubana (wazirin Fune) started that,  the reason for this exercise is to mark the commencement of vaccination against trans- boundary Animal diseases that affect cattle, Sheep, goat and dogs against rabies among others. LEADERSHIP learnt that, the government organized Agricultural Retreat and the formation of a Technical committee on the revitalization of Agriculture aim at enhancing state economy to the paths of sustainability. According to him, the vaccination exercise will cover all the local governments in the state and all veterinary Doctors, and officers along with stakeholders most put their hands on deck and work hard with commitment to achieve the desired objects of kicking out Animal diseases all together in yobe state. He added that, “the Animal diseases and malnutrition have equally continued to impede livestock development not only in the state but country in general” he emphasized. He said, the government has approved over 36 million naira to the pilot livestock development program for the procurement of inputs and vaccines equally plan are underway for the establishment of ultra-modern Abattoir  and upgrading on indigenous livestock through artificial insemination. In her remark, the commissioner Ministry of Agriculture and natural resources Dr. Mairo Amshi, has enjoyed people particularly the pastorolist and the local government councils to give this exercise all the necessary support and cooperation to ensure that no single Animal remains unvaccinated. She then appealed to the state government for the establishment of veterinary clinics, vaccination camps, employment agricultural extension staff and re- activation of community Agricultural support and training centre among others. The program manager pilot livestock development program Dr. Mustapha Gaidam expressed gratitude to  Governor Buni  for giving them approval to conduct 2019 Annual mass vaccination campaign in good time.