Following the Supreme Court judgment, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in March 2019 election, Chief Adebayo Adelabu  has congratulated Governor Seyi Makinde, wished him a peaceful, magnanimous and development-focused tenure. Adelabu who gave the advice after the Supreme Court reaffirmed the election of Seyi Makinde as governor of the state, in a statement in Ibadan said that he and his supporters have to move on in the interest of the state. He said he would not stop to contribute his quota, in his personal capacity to the development of the state. “I greet my dear great people of Oyo State. In the last few weeks since the 2019 gubernatorial election petition found itself before the Supreme Court, our dear state has been gripped with palpable tension. “But now that the judgement has been given, I strongly believe that the time has come for the state to move forward in order for necessary benefits of democracy to accrue. “As your candidate, after the elections, we took advantage of the law as provided for by the electoral act and moved from the tribunal through to the Appeal Court and finally, the Supreme Court. As the highest court in the land, it is the court of last resort for those looking for justice. “This is not the outcome we wanted or we worked so hard for, and I’m sorry that we did not win this election for the values we share and vision we hold for our dear state. But I feel pride and gratitude for the wonderful opportunity and campaign that we built together, the vast, diverse, creative, energised campaign. “I know how disappointed you feel because I feel it, too. And so do hundreds of thousands of voters who invested their hopes and dreams in this effort and voted for us. ‘’Democracy works when you have a vigorous campaign between competing manifestos to get to that vision. But once the election is over, once all avenue to seek redress for perceived electoral wrongdoing has been exhausted, one side wins and the other side is supposed to hold fire, and let the winner govern on the basis of their vision for the development of the state and let the electorate be the judge of their performance or otherwise. “I know most of our supporters are disappointed. I am too but our disappointment must be overcome by the love for our dear state. This will not in any way, deter me from continuing to contribute my quota, in my personal capacity, to the development of our dear state towards achieving the desired economic emancipation of our people. ‘’I thank you all for your faith and trust in me. I thank our party leadership and all members for their dedication and hard work during and after the elections”, part of the statement read. He urged them not to relent in your support for our great party (APC) as we conclude the genuine reconciliations and party re-building we have all started for sake of desired success as we prepare for future elections. 