Determined to create more job opportunities for teeming unemployed youths in Ekiti state, Governor Kayode Fayemi, has expressed his administration readiness to resuscitate some moribund industries in the state. The governor said a sum of N2 billion would be injected into the Ikun Dairy farm, located at Ikun Ekiti, in Moba Local Government of the state as part of the move to meaningfully engage the young people in the state. Fayemi, who spoke while inspecting the facilities at the farm on Thursday, said the  resuscitation, which will be done  in partnership with Promasidor Nigeria Limited and the Central Bank of Nigeria, will ensure daily production of about  10, 000 litres of milk. He explained that; “The revampment of Ikun Dairy Farm established in 1987, but abandoned by  past administrations in the state, was part of the move by our administration to lure more investors to the state,  with  plans  underway by Dangote Nigeria Limited to establish a Rice Factory Mills. “Let me reiterate the readiness of our administration to continue to provide enabling environment for private industries to strive in the state. Arrangement had been concluded to revive Ire Clay Bricks Limited and other industries in the state. “I salute the host community for their unflinching support to the firm. I urge them to give more supports to the farm and ensure it’s success”, Fayemi said. Making parlour, maternity home for cows, pens for crossbreeding, factory for milk  production  reservoir for manure production, among others were some of the facilities inspected by the governor. The Governor also used the opportunity to inspect the Ero Dam in the town. The Chief Executive Officer of Promasidor,  Mr. Olivier Thiry,  said about 400 cows was purchased for the first phase of the project and the farm will begin production of milk within the next 18 months. While soliciting the support of the people of the state on the success of the firm and he assured that the company will employ about 1,000 Ekiti indigenes when fully operational. “Promasidor has made an initial investment of $5 million in the farm which will be invested to procure cattle, equip the Dairy farm, establish a farm to produce feed and renovate existing buildings. “At full capacity, this farm will produce over 10, 000 litres of milk per day, over 1,000 Ekiti people will also be employed to work in the farm,” he stated. Also speaking, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria,  Mr. Godwin Emefuele,  represented by his Special Adviser on finance,  Mr.  Anthony Ifechukwu, commended Fayemi on his effort at bringing more investors to the state. He said he had got assurances from the Central Bank for the success of the firm and other investments aimed at bringing more developments to the state. 