The federal government has disclosed that the number of young girls being trafficked from West Africa, most of whom are trapped in the international sex tourism industry and labor exploitation, ‘’is alarming.’’ The minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed who disclosed this on Thursday in Abuja, during a programme to commemorate the International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition said the day is a constant reminder of more than 18 million men, women, and children which were forcefully removed from African countries. According to him, ‘’For us as Nigerians, the International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition is a constant reminder that for over 40 decades, more than 18 million men, women, and children were forcefully removed from African countries (Nigeria inclusive), to the Americas, the Caribbean, and Europe and were victims of the catastrophic transatlantic slave trade. ‘’Today, the number of young girls being trafficked from West Africa, most of whom are trapped in the international sex tourism industry and labor exploitation, is alarming. ‘’But the report on Identifying the Factors Driving West African Migration published by OECD in July 2018 also revealed that, despite recognition that West Africans are heading to Europe in growing numbers, there are ten times more migration within West Africa than to Europe, which seems to affirm the numerous opportunities available in the sub-region.’’ The minister, however, reiterated the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari led-administration to tackling the spate of unemployment within the youthful population, especially as unemployment was one of the factors responsible for the menace of the modern slavery. Alhaji Mohammed said the N-Power programme has created thousands of jobs for graduates, adding that the Anchor Borrower’s Programme has created hundreds of thousands of young farmers across the country and generated several direct and indirect jobs across the agricultural value chains. ‘’In addition to the government’s efforts in partnering with some Foundations to assist the youth to be self-reliant, billions of naira have been released to the Bank of Industries for disbursement to the youth, who are currently undergoing capacity building in various vocations that will make them independent and self- employed. ‘’The Executive Order on ease of doing business has also created a good environment for investing and doing business in Nigeria. All these initiatives and many more are geared towards the human capital development of our people, in addition to making Nigeria a more attractive place where all citizens can realize their dreams,’’ he added. On her part, the director-general of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Julie Okah-Donli said the problem of human trafficking and irregular migration cannot be tackled successfully by an individual or organisation. Okah-Donli noted that all hands must be on deck to concretely take actions to tackle the scourge. 