The federal government has set a new National Broadband Plan (2020-2025) that is expected to boost broadband penetration from its present coverage of 37.8 per cent to over 70 per cent in the next five years. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami who stated this at the inauguration of a 25 member committee in Abuja yesterday, said pervasive broadband penetration will certainly make Nigeria a truly digital economy. The new NBP 2020 -2025 is sequel to the first NBP 2013 – 2018. The new NBP committee has Ms Funke Opeke, managing director/CEO of Main One Cable Company Limited, as chairperson with Dr Bashir Gwandu as co-chairman. Engr Ubale Maska, the executive commissioner, Technical Services, Nigerian Communications Commissions who will serves as the secretary to the committee, will be supported by four staff of the Ministry in the secretariat. “The committee will develop a new National Broadband Plan that will be the guiding template for the development of this very important area of telecommunications,” he said. “The Committee is to take a critical look at where we are after painstaking review of the 2013-2018 phase and the status of penetration now. The members are enjoined to also examine the challenges with a view to proffering solutions thereto. They should also look at the position of growing and emerging technologies among others.” The new NBP has the collaboration and support of the United Kingdom (UK) Government. The inauguration of the new committee is a follow up to the launch of the National Policy for Digital Economy and Strategy by President Muhammadu Buhari, in November 2019. The policy has eight pillars among which are Developmental Regulation, Digital Literacy and Skills, Solid Infrastructure, Service Infrastructure, Digital Services Development and Production, Digital Society Emerging Technologies and Indigenous Content Development. The minister told the committee members to lay emphasis on the third pillar of the National Policy which accommodates broadband and data centre, key components for economic growth, and promotion of digital economy. work, he explained will address significantly one of the eight pillars and the remaining seven will also run as one of this all-important pillars. “The work of this committee will go a very long way in supporting the national digital economic policy and strategy for the Federal Government because digital economy is strategically dominating the world economy today,” according to Pantami who said, members of the committee were selected based on their competence, integrity and professionalism, adding, “In all these, Nigeria comes first.”