Fourteen insurance companies have joined the federal government’s diversification of the economy from oil to agriculture as they go into underwriting agriculture businesses. Before now, the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation (NAIC) was the major insurer of the agricultural sector, but following the commitment of the government to the development of agriculture and the bright prospect of the sector, underwriting firms have developed more interest in the industry. The insurance companies which have veered into the agriculture sector include NAIC, Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Industrial and General Insurance (IGI) Plc, Royal Exchange, Veritas Kapital Assurance, Anchor Insurance Company Limited, AIICO Insurance Plc, Linkage Assurance Plc, Prestige Assurance Plc, and AXA Mansard. LEADERSHIP learnt that most of them are insuring farmers and their farmlands while others are insuring livestock of the stakeholders under the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) Anchor Borrowers Initiative. In an address at the recent Africa Re and International Finance Corporation (IFC) Agriculture Insurance workshop in Lagos, the deputy managing director/chief operating officer of African Reinsurance Corporation, Ken Aghoghovbia, confirmed that 14 insurance firms were into underwriting agriculture insurance. He expressed the optimism that within the next two years, the challenges facing the industry in the implementation of agriculture index insurance contracts to farmers would be a thing of the past. Aghoghovbia said that Nigeria has immense economic potential in agriculture and applauded the federal government for its initiatives that triggered the 2012 Agricultural Transformation Agenda and set the ball rolling for the insurance industry to tap into it through provision of affordable products to farmers whilst at the same time guaranteeing food security. Similarly, the managing director/chief executive officer of Royal Exchange General Insurance Company (REGIC), Mr. Benjamin Agili, said that InsuResilience Investment Fund (IIF) acquired 39.25 per cent stake in REGIC by injecting N3.6 billion in the company. He said that the proceeds of the investment would help REGIC to spur growth by increasing its risk capital and underwriting capacity in agriculture. In like manner, the managing director/chief executive of Anchor Insurance, Mr. Austine Ebose, said that the company’s agriculture insurance products, such as multi-peril crop insurance covers the risk of fire, lightening, pest/diseases, drought, flood, windstorm and aircraft disasters for all destroyed or damaged cash and arable crops Ebose said: “Fishery insurance takes care of risks of death of fishes as a result of diseases and collapse of the pond. Others are poultry insurance which is essentially against the death of birds as a result of accident, diseases, fire, flood and windstorm; as well as livestock insurance which insures against the death of animals due to accident, pest/diseases, and fire.” Agriculture in Nigeria is exposed to adverse natural disasters, the impact and economic costs of which experts fear may increase in the future because of climatic factors occasioned by climate change. It is therefore a new dawn for farmers as agricultural insurance protects them against the loss of or damage to crops or livestock. It has great potential to provide value for low-income farmers and their communities when shocks occur and by encouraging greater investment in crops. Agricultural insurance can also indemnify policyholders from losses, though such indemnity products are relatively rare due to the high cost of administration and the risk of fraud. Basically, agricultural micro-insurance is index-based, providing farmers with payouts tied to the performance of an index (such as a rainfall gauge), rather than indemnifying them for crop losses actually experienced.  CBN Commits N69bn to Edo Oil Palm Project Meanwhile, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has revealed plans to invest N69 billion in the Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP) initiated by Governor Godwin Obaseki to reposition the sector for more competitiveness. The apex bank’s governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who stated this yesterday at the launch of the programme in Benin City, said that Edo which has Nigeria’s largest oil palm plantation is the best place to invest, if the country must revive its oil palm industry. Emefiele commended Obaseki for his commitment to developing the country’s oil palm sector and promised that the CBN would make available N69 billion funding facility for ESOPP. He said the state made available 120,000 hectares of land for the project, noted that the state has received over 80 per cent from the apex bank’s N30 billion agriculture intervention for states. Emefiele said: “I want to thank Governor Godwin Obaseki for showing the required commitment and leadership in developing the oil palm sector in Nigeria. When we contemplated on reviving the oil palm sector in Nigeria, he was the only one that came out aggressively from the South-South and South-East governors and made available 120,000 hectares of land for this project. “Edo State has the largest oil palm plantation in Nigeria and in reviving the oil palm industry in the country; the state is the best place to start. The CBN has disbursed about N30 billion to entrepreneurs in the oil palm sector in Nigeria in the last one year and of that amount, about N25 billion has been channeled to support companies into oil palm plantation in Edo State,” he said. In his speech, Governor Obaseki said that the project was in line with his administration’s agenda to harnessing the state’s rich human and natural endowments for economic growth and the wellbeing of the people. He said that his administration remains committed to diversifying the state’s economy, achieving economic prosperity, creating jobs, and improving the living conditions of the people. “The focus on the oil palm sector alone can stimulate and drive the economy of any state as it has done to Malaysia and Indonesia. This programme will enable us move from complaining and talking about what we have lost to concrete action towards regaining what has been lost,” he said. Obaseki added that the ESOPP would leverage on what the CBN had initiated, stressing that “ours is to remove the critical risk in the oil palm sector by solving the biggest hindrances to plantation farms in Nigeria and making land available to farmers.” He hinted that his administration had provided about 120,000 hectares of land for oil palm development in the state, adding that the “successful implementation of the programme will create over 600,000 more jobs as well as 25,000 hectares of forest cover. This programme will cost us about $600 million, which is approximately N200 billion. The money is there globally as money is not out of reach with investors on ground.” The governor said that he would set up the Edo State Oil Palm Programme Implementation Office, noting that consultants, surveyors, community relations experts would be trained to review and ensure guidelines are strictly followed. “I thank the CBN governor for stimulating the agricultural sector, creating the platform for our dream to come true. As a state, our goal is to be that trigger for oil palm in Nigeria as the nation needs millions of lands for oil palm. We will stand as a stimulant for other states,” Obaseki stated. Earlier, the special adviser to Edo State Governor on Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security Programme, Prince Joe Okojie, said that the 120,000 hectares of land for the programme was made available by the four local government areas. Okojie said that while Ovia North East provided 25,329 hectares,Ovia South West offered 36, 759 hectares, while Orhionmwon and Uhunmwode provided 51,000 and 23, 000 hectares respectively.