Concerned by high maternal mortality in Kebbi State and the recent health report released by the National Demographic Health Statistics of 2018 , the wife of Kebbi State Governor,Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu had summoned a meeting of women leaders at the grassroots in Kebbi State. The meeting which was held at the Presidential Banquet Hall in Birnin Kebbi at the weekend was attended by wives of local government chairmen, wives of councillors, 23 elected councillors, wives of legislators, women leaders, coordinators, education secretaries and officials from the state primary healthcare agency. Dr. Bagudu said said she summoned the meeting of the key women stakeholders at the grassroots level to inform them of the poor health statics especially on the maternal mortality and the need to join hands and mobilize the women in order to reverse the trend. She said 80 percent of women living in rural areas do not have access to the mass media hence the need to gather women leaders at the grassroots to take the message to them. According to her in spite of State Government efforts to improve the health sector, the survey showed that Kebbi in Northwest was still at disadvantage. “We have to engage with them and tell them the problem we are facing and we have to teach them how to go about the advocacy for women to go to hospital for ante natal at least 4 times a month “. “They have to tell the women in their area to deliver their babies in the hospitals, immunise their babies and sleep under mosquito treated net “. Dr. Bagudu also opined that in 2020, the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency down to the State Healthcare Agency would be rolling out a new method . She said under the new method which she would also key in and champion, women would be taught the things to be looking at, it is a new method of advocacy. “We are going to advocate for increase funding in education, increase funding to primary healthcare “” ,she said. Cross section of women leaders who talked at the event expressed indication of their total support to cooperate with the wife of the governor to reverse the trend and ensure improvement in the health sector .