Barely six months after an intruder attempted to force his way into an Azman aircraft cabin, another one yesterday made efforts to climb a taxing Air Peace aircraft at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA) in Lagos. The Owerri-bound Air Peace aircraft (flight P47252) was taxing towards the threshold for take-off before the incident. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that at about 0850hrs of 27 December 2019, a young man of about 25 years was sighted around the air field by FAAN Aviation Security (AVSEC) personnel manning the Charlie One (C1) link/holding area. According to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Aviation Security (AVSEC) personnel on static guard duties at the area rushed to stop his further movement to a taxiing aircraft (CS-TQU) and a struggle ensued. All efforts to stop the intruder by the unarmed AVSEC personnel failed as the intruder became violent. FAAN stated that while the struggle was ongoing, the AVSEC personnel called for reinforcement and beckoned on the pilot of CS-TQU to delay the aircraft to allow for a successful apprehension of the intruder. “The intruder was eventually apprehended at about 0905hrs by the AVSEC personnel with the support of the reinforcement and was transferred for other action.” “The aircraft was also returned to base for necessary security checks in line with standards and was declared safe for flight.” The managing director of FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, in company with two directors, the regional general manager (SW), Mrs Victoria Shin-Aba and the Airport Chief of Security (MMA) quickly moved to the scene of the incident. The swift action by the AVSEC team was commended by the pilot of CS-TQU who spoke with FAAN management team. According to him, the action of the FAAN security team was timely and professional in protecting the flight as he was not even aware of any intrusion. Confirming the incident, Air Peace in a statement issued yesterday and signed by the Corporate Communications Executive, Stanley Olise, stated that exactly 9:10 at the MMA1 Lagos on Friday, an Owerri-bound Air Peace aircraft(flight P47252) was taxing towards the threshold for take-off, when a man, in his twenties, emerged from the bush along the runway, and tried to gain access to the aircraft through the wheel-well. According to the statement, there was a private jet behind the aircraft; the pilot in command of the private jet informed the Air Peace pilot in command that a young man obviously in his twenties, was trying to force his way into the aircraft. “The security wing of the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, was alerted and the man was accosted and whisked away. He is currently in the regulator’s custody. When interrogated on why he took the action, the man stated that he thought the aircraft was headed overseas. “We commend FAAN for its timely intervention. The regulator is already investigating the incident,” it added. The airline however, stated that it remains committed to the safety of its customers and will continue to demonstrate this commitment in all aspects of its operations.