The Chief of Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral, Ibot-Ete Ibas has celebrated Christmas carol night with members of the Naval Officers Wives Association (NOWA) and other dignitaries in Lagos. The event which was organized by the NOWA held at Nigerian Navy Dockyard hall in Lagos as a way of appreciating the mercy of Almighty God in their lives. According to the CNS and special guest of honor said, “tonight occasion indeed special as we appreciate the mercy of Almighty God for granting us the unique gift of witnessing yet another carol night.” “This Yuletide present a unique season that reminds us once again of the peace and blessings of giving and sharing the unmerited mercy favor of God” Ibas said that the Christmas carol night is an song fiesta which defines the gaiety of the season and spirit of Christmas. “It provides an Opportunity to for the Christianity faithful to sing carols song and create the perfect celebratory atmosphere to kick start the series of activities making the birth of Jesus Christ.” He said that the NOWA annual Christmas carols therefore epitomizes our expression of gratitude for the gift of the Lord Jesus Christ and serves as a strong reminder that we are part of God’s orchestrated plan for the salvation of mankind. “On this note I wish to deeply appreciate the President of NOWA, my dear wife, Barrister Mrs. Theresa Ibas, for her leadership and commitment to the ideas of the organization’ “I also acknowledge the support of NOWA members of her executives and indeed the entire members of the organization Nationwide”. He therefore commended the organization for their support and holding the home front and reiterated the unshakeable commitment of the Nigerian Navy to support the activities of NOWA. In her remarks, the President of NOWA, barrister Mrs. Theresa Ibas, said, regardless of the situation we face in life, this season urges us to keep faith and believe in brighter tomorrow. She said that, we should therefore endeavor to be a bright ray of hope to the needy and hopeless one in the society. “ we must have experienced different situation which combined to make us better and strong as individuals families and as an organization” “It is our strong believes that things can get better as we move with renewed optimism into the new year’ She added that, this hope is based on our unshaken faith in the grace of God, the solid foundation which we have put in place to positively impact on the social and economy well being of our people as well as our numerous support we enjoyed from our husbands and society in general.