The Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday said its personnel did not arrest Omoyele Sowore, convener of the #RevolutionNow movement, in court, claiming that the journalist’s supporters were only acting an orchestrated drama. The DSS in a statement by its public relation officer, Peter Afunanya, said there were none of its officers involved in the incidents recorded in the courtroom, explaining that, “In actual fact, it was his people who seized him. “When Sowore stepped out of the court and sighted operatives of the Service within the premises, he ran back into the courtroom. In a bid to shield him from an imaginary arrest, his uncontrollable supporters mobbed him while chanting “you can’t arrest him” thus the pandemonium that ensued,” the DSS spokesman stated. He further said that eye witness and several media accounts had disclosed that the court had adjourned peacefully without an untoward incident when suddenly the unruly crowd imported into the courtroom went into a frenzy on the mere suspicion that DSS officials were sighted at the court premises. He said, “The eventual re-arrest of Sowore by the DSS was effected outside the courtroom. His lead counsel has affirmed this. The DSS, as a professional, responsible and law abiding organisation could not have invaded a courtroom including the one presided over by a respected Judge who is not only handling its case but whose order was unconditionally obeyed within a 24- hour ultimatum. The Service holds the judiciary in utmost respect and will continue to work with it for national peace and public safety in Nigeria. “It may be recalled that the Service had on 3rd December, 2019, raised alarm about a plot to destabilise the country. It is quite remarkable that the plot has already started playing out.To ensure this objective is further achieved, some persons and groups are scurrying to seize the opportunity of the misleading court incident and the wrong narrative against the DSS to organise an insurrection in the country. They have continued to falsely carry and mobilise international sentiments and attention, through clear misrepresentation of the facts, for their selfish ends. “For emphasis, it should be noted that Sowore is facing trial not as an activist, journalist or a politician, but for his resort to call for violence, forceful takeover of government and suspected transnational illegal activities. It is most unfortunate that Sowore, shortly after being released from custody, based on court order, resorted to acts inimical to security. To this effect, only Sowore has been re-arrested as his co-defendant, Olawale Bakare was not picked up even when Falana had promised to deliver him to the Service that is not presently interested in him. “Though sections of the populace have been fed with spurious narratives about these developments, Nigerians and the international community should not be gullible or even vulnerable to the machinations of groups desirous of misleading them. “The Service is committed to the discharge of its mandate of detecting and preventing threats against the internal security of Nigeria. It supports democracy in the country and will do all that is legal to protect it. It will also ensure that efforts of anti-democratic forces are frustrated.”