In this report, parishioners of St Theresa’s Catholic Church, Madalla, recount their ordeals eight years after the unfortunate Christmas day bomb blast in 2011, TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes. It has been eight years since the deadly attack by dare-devil terrorist elements Boko Haram, unleashed terror at St. Theresa Catholic Church in Madalla, a satellite town of Abuja located 40 km from the city center of Abuja, killing at least, 37 people and injuring 57 others. For the survivors of the attack, the memories of the Christmas day bombing in 2011 still linger especially when Christmas comes around every year. Each survivor and family and friends of victims all have a story to tell about how they deal with the memories and how they feel after escaping death by the whiskers all in as they thank God for life. For some, those memories are faded, but for others, the details are vivid and might etch in their memories for the rest of their lives. Seventy-year-old Mrs Kate Ehis, lost an only son in the blast in Madalla that fateful Christmas Day in 2011. Popularly called mama, the widow fondly spoke of her son whom she admits she misses, even as she has left everything in the hands of God. ‘‘What I remember most about that day is the smell of burning flesh after the blast and the smoke that engulfed the air. I immediately tried to look for my son who is a scout but couldn’t find him. Then it became clear to me that my only son had been killed in the blast.’’ Mrs Ehis was later told that her 27-year-old son, Peter Ehis, who single handedly catered for all her needs after her husband’s death, was the one who tried to stop the suicide bomber from entering the church. ‘‘I was told that it was my son who bravely stopped the suicide bomber from killing many more people in the church,’’ she said proudly. Mrs. Ehis said since the death of her son, the month of December usually comes with a little air of depression and sometimes, it is a little traumatic for her too. ‘‘Sometimes it’s so depressing I pray for death but death does not come. I could be walking on the street and people are talking to me or calling out my name but I would not know until they touch me. The only time I feel happy is when members of the scout come to visit, that heals my wound,’’ she said. The parish has since started a group, Conqueror Group of The Bomb Blast, which is headed by another survivor, Prince Remy Ofoha. Ofoha is of the opinion that the federal government, through the ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster and Social Development should support them. According to Ofoha, he used to sell heavy earth moving equipment parts like caterpillar parts but since after the incident, his condition does not allow him to do that kind of business because of the heavy metals which require strength to lift. After a few weeks after the blast, he discovered that he had to start a new trade because he couldn’t cope with the demand of his former business. ‘‘I no longer had the strength to continue my line of business. I now sell electrical parts.’’ He said he has forgiven all the master minders of the deadly act as the doctrine of Catholic Church preaches and prays for their repentance. ‘‘We have forgiven all those people that did those things because as Catholics, what we preach is forgiveness and repentance of the mind. We do not hold grudges or hate so we have forgiven all the atrocity committed against us and against the Christians and the Church so I tell you, instead of decreasing we are increasing in number. He said perhaps, what the deadly sect plan was to eliminate the Church or to bring all Christians down or fight with Muslims but the church has instead increased in number, adding that some of the church outstations are now parishes. ‘‘So, we thank God for the increase,’’ he said. He further stated that despite their expectations they are alive and doing well. ‘‘Too many of us that were victims at that time, what the devil thought is not what happened, I can tell you this. We count ourselves to be lucky to be alive today despite our health challenges. ‘‘The church has tried very well for us in their own little capacity. The church offers Mass for us, pray for us on a daily basis and we also pray for the master minders to have a rethink and repent.’’ Another survivor, Vitalis Ugokwe, said he was injured severely during the blast and hospitalised for three months. He said his son was also a victim of the blast. He said they both need medical support, adding that he cannot do the surgery on his own due to financial constraints. He said he still needs surgery that will still make his heart and bodywork well again. ‘‘In my own case, the iron entered into my body, enter through the shoulder to my heart. I was in the hospital for three months before it was operated and it affected my whole body you can see my hand, my body is not working well, as am talking to you, I am still feeling some pain in my body so it affected my work. I am an electrician but I can’t work due to my health condition, if am able to get assistance from the government I will be happy. ‘‘My business has gone down to the level that I can’t feed my family and train my children in school, so what I am looking for now is the support from the government and individuals, good-hearted individuals who can support my surgery that will enable me work again. The federal government promised us but have not given us any compensation but we are still looking forward and expectant that they will do something so that we can support ourselves and people that depend on us. ‘‘The blast also affected my brain, I cannot move well. In all my body, my nails I am still feeling some crack up till now, so it not easy I have gone through pain so we are asking government to come to our aid ones again at least to even widows and all those people here their life will be okay again if we are empowered we will be able to cater for our family.’’ Sharing the same sentiment like Ugokwe and Ofoha on the need for the federal government to help salvage their situation, another victim Aloysius Kenedinum said the injury he sustained has affected his status. Kenedinum said that there was a time the government invited them to Gwagwa and they all went there. He said the officials evaluate them but since then they did not get back to them. ‘‘Some of still have pain in us apart from those who lost their lives. I have eardrum burst and pieces of iron are still in my body and since then I have been using eyeglasses and having spinal cord issues. We always go for scanning at the national hospital which is expensive. ‘‘After the first support from the federal government they have abandoned us to our fate, sometimes journalists do come here to interview us and after the interview, there will be claims that they visit us to give us succor, it is not true. ‘‘We are over 100 that sustain various degrees of injuries. We are tired of interviews. So, we are appealing for support from the federal government. Some of us cannot do our jobs anymore because we don’t have the strength anymore because of our injuries. And this injury has really affected our status in life,’’ he added. The Parish Priest of the church, Rev. Fr. John Moses Jatau, has called on the federal government to help give succor and empower survivors of the Christmas day bomb blast in 2011 in the church. Fr Jatau, who disclosed this when speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP Friday said the stories of the victims are pathetic and always make him sad. He noted that they are still raising funds for victims who are in need of financial help. ‘‘I just took over the parish in March this year and other priests have been here before me like Rev. Fr. Isaac Achi and also father Barde Christopher, they were the two priests actually who were on the ground when it happened eight years ago. ‘’There were a lot of things that happened after the blast. A committee was set up to ameliorate the sufferings of the victims in the church amongst others. ‘‘To date, we are still raising funds to reach out to the needy and the victims who are in need of financial support. The government and other agency help at the initial stage and since then there is to be nothing again coming from them. We are still reaching out to them by giving them support by comforting them both spiritual and other means.’’ He stressed that their stories generally are sad ones and that is why the church has been supportive to them. ‘‘It will be well appreciated if the government can identify them and empowered the survivors and their family. You know identification is important and then empowering them because all of them have different degree injury they suffering. ‘‘Some of them are breadwinners and cannot do what they are doing before now, so government and non-governmental organisation should help. I have lost two of my family members this year so I know how it feels to lose a loved one and the need to comfort the bereaved. ‘‘Some of them have been affected physically, that some cannot do the business they were doing before the incident, so they need help. Some of them are widows too because their husbands were killed in the blast, they all need to be empowered and need relief,’’ he added. Meanwhile, the church council chairman Mark Eze expressed concerns on the need to support the victim and their family members. ‘‘I wish to call on the government to help the survivors because some of them have brain tumors, while other loss their breadwinners. The church has been supportive to them but there is an urgent need for the government to help ameliorate their suffering,’’ he added.