Ships calling at the Lagos and Port Harcourt seaports are stranded at anchorage and experiencing berthing delay due to lack of space to discharge fresh cargoes at the port terminals. The situation is described as the worst in 13 years. The congestion, LEADERSHIP gathered was due to the closure of the Nigerian land borders which has increased imports to the seaports, the yuletide and gridlock on the port access road making it impossible for trucks to access the Lagos seaports for evacuation of cleared cargoes. It was further learnt that in the last one month, accessing the Lagos seaports – Tin-Can Island and Apapa – have both been a nightmare to truck drivers that they spend between seven to 14 days on stretching queues. Also, importers and clearing agents have repeatedly groaned over delays in evacuating their cargoes from the Apapa and Tin Can Island ports as the gridlock in the axis has taken a worrisome dimension. Port operators attributed ship delay at berth and congestion at the various container terminals to space-constraint inside the facilities, as cargo delivery has also considerably slowed down. While confirming the congestion, Pacific International Lines (PIL), an international shipping company calling at the Lagos Port Complex of Apapa Port and Tin Can Port said that it takes three weeks to berth a vessel at both ports. In a letter issued to importers and their clearing agents, PIL warned that Lagos ports had reached their maximum capacity and advised importers to factor this into their importation schedule. The company, in the letter titled: “Re: Nigeria Port Delays (Lagos/Tin Can),” said: “Kindly be advised that Nigeria is currently facing severe berthing delays at Lagos Tin Can. Lagos is facing close to three weeks and Tin Can five to six days berthing. This is affecting all lines and please factor this into your supply chain delivery date. “It is understood that the delays are attributed to the port being at maximum capacity due to the country effectively closing its borders to neighbouring countries, compounded by lack of equipment in the terminals and a recent fire in the port confines. “We regret any negative impact this may have and be assured of our best efforts to get your cargo to destination as quickly as possible. Please do not hesitate to contact our marketing team for any updates or assistance.” The president of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Increase Uche, who confirmed the development, said that apart from the deplorable state of the port access road, the gridlock was made worse due to increasing cargo inflow through the port, occasioned by the border closure as more cargoes are now being diverted to the seaports. Uche said: “We have predicted that if the borders remain closed, the influx of cargo through the port will triple and that is what is happening now. Accessing the port is a big challenge now. From morning till evening, one is on the road. Even when you succeed in processing your documents, at the end of the day, getting trucks with the high charges of haulage is another problem. “At present, the average cost of moving a 20-feet container from the port is as high as N400,000, not minding where you are going while a 40-feet container going interstate has gone up as high as N1 million. The port access road issue does not only concern linkage between Apapa and Tin Can to Costain, but it also affects almost the whole highways that link the markets and industrial areas in Lagos,” he said. The NAGAFF president added that, “the situation is so pathetic because there is no linkage in terms of connectivity and all the pressure is now on the road. We have been advising the government to put structures in place even if it is palliative, but it must be enduring. From there, we can graduate to the medium-term solution. The Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) told us that they are developing an electronic call-up system that will start in August. Till today, we don’t know what happened to that. We even asked them to perfect the manual call-up system, they said no, and today, we have neither the manual nor the electronic call-up.” Similarly, the president of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Tony Nwabunike, said that they observed that many ships are waiting to berth at the ports in Lagos, Port Harcourt and Onne, thereby attracting trucks and other heavy duty vehicles to the areas, adding the situation required some level of urgency. He said: “We hereby call on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct that ships waiting on Lagos and Port Harcourt anchorages be diverted within a period of three months to ports in Warri, Delta State and Calabar, Cross River State. Nigeria-bound cargoes are at present being diverted to Duala Port in Cameroun due to the long waiting periods and cargo owners’ desire for quick turnaround time for vessels. “Shippers and cargo owners are very conscious about ships turnaround time and will likely embrace opportunities for quicker discharge of cargoes,” Nwabunike said in a statement he issued on the issue, adding that the diversion would not only support the government’s Ease of Doing Business objectives but would also reduce the number of trucks on some port access roads and allow the speedy execution of the ongoing construction along the corridor.