In less than three years of its existence, Tiamin Multi Services and Global Limited, producer of Tiamin Rice, has created a local brand that competes favourably with imported rice. This has made it a household name in most parts of northern Nigeria. For its high quality and market penetration in so short a time, Tiamin Rice is LEADERSHIP Product of the Year 2019. With brands like Tiamin Rice, Nigerians are increasingly losing taste for imported rice. Outside a Kano suburb, along Zaria Road, by the entrance of the commercial nerve-centre of the north, a chimney is located inside a compound which houses one of the most sophisticated rice mills in northern Nigeria. Tiamin Rice is a local brand; its owners and producers, Tiamin Multi-Services and Global Limited, was registered in 2016 and commenced operations in 2017. Unlike most indigenous products that fall below international standards, Tiamin Rice is highly nutritious and well-processed to meet the taste of a variety of consumers, who have maintained their patronage of the brand. The rice mill has state-of-the-art equipment and the commitment of the management guarantees a very bright future for the company. Inside the large structure manned by the deputy managing director, Aliyu A. Ibrahim, the 320-metric-tonne edifice attracts businessmen and women, who come with heavy trucks to either upload goods or deliver raw materials. The young and energetic executive noted that the company receives unprocessed rice from farmers and aggregators and turns them to Tiamin Rice as a finished product. Aliyu said, “We have maintained a capacity of 320 metric tonnes per day and plan to add 600 metric tonnes in Kano and another 600 metric tonnes in Bauchi. If you add up these figures, that will make a combined capacity of 1,520 tonnes for us.” The company was inspired to diversify from the construction industry into agriculture with Tiamin Rice as a major brand through the policy of President Buhari administration on food security, which has enabled it to benefit from the Paddy Aggregation Scheme. The grains are parboiled in the best modern ways for better quality, Aliyu said, adding that “we are much aware of the importance of parboiling in the process, so we have expatriates giving our workforce the necessary skills in practice.” Tiamin Rice is produced by a salaried personnel of 207 and auxiliary staff of between 250 and 320. This huge workforce has reduced unemployment in the country. For its high quality and nutritious value, Tiamin Rice is the LEADERSHIP Product of the Year 2019.