With the rate of illiteracy still high in Nigeria, experts have recommended the adoption of jolly phonics method of teaching as a way to get over the problem, HENRY TYOHEMBA writes. H\aving a strong foundation in English literacy nowadays is considered to be a very crucial requirement for children to excel both in their educational and social lives. In Nigeria, illiteracy has remained a challenge and despite repeated efforts by government and other partners to create a positive outcome, available data still show that a huge population of Nigerians can neither read nor write. Indeed, the permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr Sonny Echono, only recently said nearly 60 million Nigerians are illiterates, tagging literacy as a social and human right issue that require all hands to be on deck to achieve. On how best to tackle the problem considering the huge number of people involved, scholars say equipping children with jolly phonics skills remain one of the best ways to eradicate illiteracy in the country. This fun and child-centred approach to teaching literacy through synthetic phonics with actions for each of the 42 letter sounds and its multi-sensory method very motivating for children and teachers can be one of the most effective strategies for enhancing children’s early reading and literacy skill, they claim. Synthetic phonics has long been recognised as an effective way to teach young children to read and write. In UK it has been included in its national curriculum since 2007 and research into reading progress using synthetic phonics has been largely positive. The process involves breaking language down into the sounds required to pronounce words. Those sounds are then taught to children with the corresponding letter or combination of letters. The children learn to sound out each part of the word, or to decode the letters into sounds. The pupils learn each sound individually and are then taught to blend the sounds together to read the words fluently. Jolly Learning Ltd, which is an educational resource company from the UK, created the very popular jolly phonics series that is widely used in the UK and around the world to overcome reading challenges worldwide. The series uses a combination of stories, songs and actions to teach each of the 42 letter sounds covered in the course. Additionally, jolly phonics helps children to master the “tricky words”, words which are not phonically regular and cannot be decoded using the letter sounds. This helps children to build a wide reading vocabulary that enables them to read confidently and fluently. While other countries have embraced it and are making significant impact using it, Nigeria is yet to run with it even though it was introduced in the country in 2006 by the chief executive officer of Universal Learning Solution, Mr Gary Foxcroft. Investigation revealed that in schools where the teaching method is being used, the pupils are making a significant progress and going by the fact that the primary school is the point at which proper foundation should be established for the acquisition of basic literacy and numeracy skills, children at the pre-primary level would definitely need these teaching method to excel in their learning process. This is because at the early primary school stage, the child is not only expected to recognize objects but should be able to read the names of the objects at home, classroom, etc. Similarly, an average primary four pupil is expected to read simple written sentences using the language of instruction. This means that children who began primary one at the age of six years should read simple sentences between the ages of nine to ten years. LEADERSHIP gathered that most of the pupils in the urban center schools can effectively read and write with the help of the jolly phonics teaching method. At the Festival Road Primary School, Garki Abuja, our correspondent  saw a number of primary one pupils reading and constructing effective sentences in English. In order to achieve a success of the programme, teachers too need to acquire basic skills on it. So far, the programme is said to have empowered only 100,000 with the basic skills since the 7 years it has been in the country. At an event to celebrate the completion of training for the 100,000 primary school teachers on jolly phonics teaching method recently in Abuja, the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) spoke about its determination to provide functional education in the country. UBEC’s director of teachers’ professional development, Mr Imail Yahya, who spoke on the occasion, saying the training of teachers on the method was to address the challenge of graduating primary school pupils who cannot read and write. Talking about the impact of jolly phonics on a child’s ability to read and write at the basic level of education in the country, Yahya disclosed that more than 5 million children had been reached since the adoption of the jolly phonics in schools across the country. “Before the introduction of the jolly phonics programme, we had problems with children, especially primary one and two, in their ability to read and write. We were used to the former habit of reading the alphabet,” he said, explaining that the training of teachers was funded from the 10 per cent set aside for teacher professional development out of the 2 per cent from the consolidated revenue fund. He added, “Our desire is that functional education is given to our children. Education is only functional when the children can read and write. In the last 7 years, jolly phonics has been in Nigeria, they have assisted in training teachers and what we are doing here today is to celebrate the 100,000 teachers trained. “We are happy because of the impact this has on the future of the children in the area of literacy. The significance is not in the number of teachers trained but the number of children that have been reached across Nigeria, more than 5 million children have been reached across Nigeria through the 100,000 teachers trained.” UBEC’s director of academic services, Mr Madawaki Wadatau said government was worried that school leavers in time past could not read and write because of the old method of teaching the alphabets. He assured that the commission would sustain the training programme, describing it as a literacy revolution that must be supported at all levels of government in the country. The jolly phonics programme which started in 2006 in Akwa Ibom has fast spread to the 36 states of the federation including the federal capital territory. The chief executive officer of Universal Learning Solution, Mr Gary Foxcroft echoed that illiteracy remains a challenge in Nigeria, making his organisation to partner UBEC and the state universal basic education boards (SUBEBS) to provide a solution to the problem. He stressed that jolly phonics has improved the learning abilities of pupils and as well increased enrollment in schools through the new method of teaching children. One of the jolly phonics teachers at Festival Road Primary School Garki, Abuja, Mrs Freda Bako said jolly phonics had helped to develop the skills of teachers and as well enhance literacy skills of pupils, adding the programme which commenced in late 2018 in the school has brought about increased enrolment and retention of pupils in the school.