Dr. Nasiru Mohammed Ladan is the Director General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE). In this interview with Michael Oche, he explained how the directorate has created over one million jobs in the last two years and how it is contributing to the federal government’s commitment to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. As the lead agency in job creation, how is the NDE contributing to FG’s vision to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years? NDE being the lead agency as far as the provision of jobs is concerned, has been around for the past 33 years. If you look at our spread, we have six zonal offices, 37 state offices, 691 desk offices out of 774 local government areas, 125 vocational training centres, 25 Agric training centres, two giant Agric parks with dormitory facilities, one in Okannu in Ondo State, the other in Sabuwa, Katsina State. At the moment, we have 26 mobile workshops that are sent to various parts of the country for training programmes. If you look at these, you will realise that NDE is a force to reckon with as far as issue of job creation is concerned because the mandate given to us by the government is to create jobs and provide employment through entrepreneurial development. And that is what we are doing. We are very much aware that the white-collar jobs are not there. And we believe we are the lead agency to champion the fulfillment of the promise made by the president to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. Going by the number of people we have trained so far; we are talking of 10,1963 within two and half years out of which 25 per cent were resettled so that they can go on their own. Next year, we are going to lay more emphasis on resettlement than training programmes because, if you train an individual on a trade, and you do not resettle them or give them a starter pack, you have wasted their time and your time. That is why we are going to give more emphasis to resettling those we have trained. We also realised that in the rural areas, most of our women are doing small businesses like frying akara and their capital is not more than N5,000. So, we came up with a programme; Micro Enterprises Enhancement Scheme (MEES) where we go to the rural areas, get close to these women, encourage them to form cooperative societies and then give them direct interest free loans of at least N10,000 to add to their existing business. From MEES alone, out of the four departments of NDE, we are thinking of hitting a target of between 10 to 15 million in the next 10 years. If we take our other programmes under vocational skills development like Basic National Open Apprenticeships Scheme (BNOAS) we did at federal level. We took 76,400 at a go 2000 per state, but states like Lagos, Kano, Rivers, and Katsina, we gave them 4000 each. In addition to that, 11,300 IDPs in the northeast were trained. We also trained some repentant Boko Haram in collaboration with the Nigerian military, this was in 2017. In 2018, we continued with the programme and in 2019, what we did was put everything in place. Initially, we did at the state level, now we are hitting the local government level. We are going to train 50 people per local government and we are talking of 38,000 across. Out of this 50, women are more vulnerable. 20 will be on cosmetology and the remaining 30, will be on other trade like carpentry, GSM repairs, auto mechanics and electrician. We believe that if we can have 30 of these trades in a local government, we have gone far. By next year, we’ll look at the success at the local government, we hit the ward level. With this in place, I don’t think taking 100 million Nigerians out of poverty, will be a problem.  Young Nigerians are not really interested in skills acquisition. What is NDE doing to make this interesting for more youths to embrace? We always tell them the money is there. If you want to make money, use your hand and your brain. That’s where the money is. If you are waiting for white collar job, it’s not there. Besides, with white collar jobs you get paid monthly. But once you learn a skill, there is no way you cannot have something doing daily and money coming to you. The problem is the pride. Let them just drop that pride. However, because of this issue where many of them feel they are graduates and they can’t learn under the artisans who they feel are not educated, we came up with the Graduate Attachment Programme just for them to have something to do. On this GAP, we attach them to a more advanced factory so that they can improve on what they learnt from the university, polytechnic or colleges of education and then we pay them N15,000 monthly. Apart from that, even the ones that are sitting redundant, we have the one that is called Graduate Coaching Scheme (GCS). If you are a graduate within your community and we know there are lots of students who are deficient in either NECO, GCE or JAMB; we say ‘look, you are a graduate, train them so that they can make up in the next sitting.’ And we pay those GCS trainers N10,000. So, we try to touch every sector. Recently, we got approval from the President to create another 40,000 jobs in eight states as a pilot programme, 1000 per local government. We intend to start with five local governments in each state in mid- February. We call it special public works. My only call to young Nigerians that are unemployed is that they come forward. We are everywhere, just tell us what you want to learn and we will train you and resettle you so that you can be on your own.  What is NDE doing to ensure that beneficiaries do not misuse this issue of resettlement? The President advised us to use as much as we can, traditional rulers and religious leaders. On like before when you are given resettlement parks and you just go away and sell it out at a giveaway price, today, it is not that easy. By the time we train you, the local government chairman, the member, House of Assembly representing your area and senator representing your area will be very aware that we have trained you. And we have a tracking device to track those we have trained and resettled  You said one of your visions is to ensure that Nigeria exports labour especially youths that want to migrate to other countries, how is that going? We in NDE always say what we believe we can do. When I first came to NDE, I tried as much as I could to study the situation, the level of unemployment. I decided to go to government agencies like NCC, NIMC, NITDA and the rest of them. And I got what I was looking for at NIMC, we opened a robust website whereby all skills, semi skills and unskilled Nigerians can get themselves registered and we created a unit called NDEi (NDE International). The aim was to borrow from what was happening in the Philippines, Pakistan, Bangladesh and the rest of them whereby we are looking at the possibility of not just creating jobs within but even exporting labour. We opened the portal to the world through their various embassies. If you are looking for any skilled or semi-skilled from Nigeria, we are like clearing house, we are trying to eliminate the use of human traffickers. You know a lot of our youths die in the Sahara Desert and Mediterranean Sea just trying to get to Europe for a better life that is not there. We cannot stop them from doing that but we are trying to see how they can move in style and dignity and where we can monitor their activities.