The Nizamiye Hospital Abuja has been in the news lately over what has become a concern to many people. In this interview, the public relations officer of the hospital, Mohammed Abubakar, sheds light on the various challenges the hospital is facing while expressing its commitment to the country’s healthcare development. Nizamiye Hospital has been in the news lately over the high mortality being recorded there. What do you have to say about this? Yes, you are right, we have been in the news lately for one or two reasons, but I can assure you that the medical breakthroughs we have recorded in the past four years are as well outstanding. On the issue of mortality rate, I am not sure the figures are as high as is being speculated. In my opinion, it is a function of the social status of patients involved. But what I can say also is that since the inception of the hospital, we have had the challenge of extreme cases of patients coming to us when all hope is lost, and in most instances, when patients are in a coma. You could argue that this has somewhat affected the image of the hospital because some patients’ relatives would always expect our doctors to perform magic even with overwhelming evidence that nothing could be done medically once an illness gets to an advanced stage. This is also on the heels that there is an acute shortage of advanced intensive care unit (ICU) in the country and we are one of the hospitals in the country with advanced ICU facility, and as such hospitals send their patients to us when all avenues have been exhausted to see what can be done in our ICU facility. I must add that when a patient gets to the level of admission into the ICU, the chances of survival are very slim, say between 5-10 per cent because at that stage, the system is shutting down with multiple organ failures and would be dependent on machines to come back to functionality again. This is the major challenge we are facing at the hospital. We get countless requests for usage of our ICU daily, and as we speak, our ICU is overstretched. The ICU specialists rarely have a breather. It is quite challenging and a significant reason why it seems there is a high mortality rate at the hospital. I must state that over 95 per cent of the deaths at the hospital are ICU cases, which are a common occurrence the world over. I must also add that upon realization of this challenge, the management of the hospital had a strategic meeting to understand why such is happening, and three revelations were made. One is the fact that we have over 20 resident expatriate consultants, the nonchalance toward undergoing medical check-up regularly, and our ICU facility. Consequently, the management, in a bid to stem the tide and encourage Nigerians to undergo medical check-up regularly, introduced a 40 per cent discount on our various medical check-up packages, which runs for three months every year (October to December). And I must quickly add that with this we have been able to catch some life-threatening illnesses at the early stages.  You talked about medical breakthroughs, can you shed more light on this? You know, as a hospital, there is a limit on how you should blow your trumpet. If I am correct, hospitals are not permitted to engage in any form of outright advertisement. And that explains why you would not find us on the pages of the newspaper now and then. But I can tell you that in our little way and corner, we have contributed immensely to the development of the health sector in Nigeria, and our over 60,000 patients can readily attest to this fact. This is also cognizant of the fact that we cannot provide 100 per cent satisfaction to everybody because of some challenges. But overall, I can state that we have done tremendously well in a fair assessment.  What are the plans for the future? Our commitment to the development of the health sector in Nigeria is unflinching. We have a team of medical experts that have distinguished themselves in their various disciplines. We are adding more specialties to take care of quite many medical cases. For instance, we have a resident cardio-vascular surgery team that performs open-heart surgeries. We also have a one-stop cardiac clinic equipped with a functional cat lab. Our pulmonary clinic also boasts of a well-experienced pulmonologist and the likes. The hospital is continually expanding to accommodate more wards and operating theatres. In the nearest future and with the investment we have made in the hospital, I think Nigerians would not have a reason to travel abroad for medical treatment. 