Yabayi Yusuf Sani was the presidential candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the 2019 General Election. In this interview with MBACHU GODWIN, Sani who also doubles as the national chairman of the party speaks on the $30bn loan to be borrowed by the federal government, hate speech and the 2023 presidential election. There is outcry on the $30 billion loan by the federal government, what is your view? There is nothing wrong in borrowing, but what is wrong in our case is when the money approved is stolen by civil servants. Although the president has said he is going to use the money for infrastructural development, but that is not the problem, we are still servicing debt. So if you borrow $30 billion dollars in this economy when the president knows that corruption is still a problem, the contracts are awarded by civil servants to themselves. It is the issue of corruption. The issue of corruption we have in the country should be tackled first. The federal government should look at other sources of funding, it can approach foreign institutions outside this country, because you cannot steal the loan as a private partner. So the National Assembly should not approve the loan, if they approve it, it is putting us in precarious situation. I hear that the National Assembly has approved 37 billion for the renovation of the National Assembly complex, wasting resources. We are not yet mature in taking such loan, it is the management of the loan that is the issue. The only time you can borrow is to expand your capacity and not to build. What National Assembly should approve is the guarantee to contractors and financial institutions, it should not approve the loan because civil servants will steal the money.  The Hate speech bill being sponsored by Senator Abdullahi Sabi Niger North has received sharp criticism and opposition, what’s your view on this contentious bill? The media has a lot of powers but with little or no responsibility, that is why, we need to regulate such institution. I am not against how hate speech can be controlled, but against capital punishment. There are so many ways you can use to deal with any person that has run fowl of the law. It is not possible, you can’t shut people up, or debar them from speaking out. You can’t stop them from speaking. There should be checks and balances to criticise the government in power so that it can fulfil the promise they made during election.  There is a bill in the Senate seeking to reduce the number of political parties in the country to five, especially those parties that didn’t win any seat at the last general election be deregistered, is it the right step? We have a member in the Federal House of Representatives, and another member in Oyo State which means if you go by the constitution, we are qualified. We won so many elections but were taken away from us. They manipulated the votes. Our senator who won in Ogun was shot dead. The issue is this, when you register a political party there are certain requirements. It takes a lot for one to register a political party, but I would want the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be cautious in deregistering political parties.  The agitation for power in 2023 has dominated political space recently.  Do you believe in rotation of power and zoning formulae? We don’t have zoning in our party, we believe that anybody can emerge in our party. Any credible candidate who enjoys the support of the electorate should be supported and encouraged to fly the party’s ticket. So, we in ADP don’t believe in zoning. Any good candidate irrespective of his geo political zone can emerge. For a country like Nigeria, you can say, it is a collection of national, for the sake of unity, there is nothing wrong in introducing guided democracy, carrying everybody along. I believe that equity be allowed.  Your party was enmeshed in an internal crisis recently, has it been finally resolved? It is normal, the party is a growing concern. That is behind us now. We held a National Executive Committee (NEC) and took some decisions that were ratified by the party convention. Those people fomenting trouble are now history. If they come back repentant, the party is for everybody, we can readmit them. You should be given the opportunity, we only have rules and regulations to abide by to regulate the conduct of members.  Kogi and Bayelsa elections have come and gone, how would you assess the conduct of the election? Those elections were sour in the history of this country. It is not what we are proud of. I have the belief that what should occupy President Muhammadu Buhari’s mind is an enduring legacy, enduring democracy, that is the only legacy he should be remembered for. I am calling on President Buhari to ensure he leaves a credible legacy of enduring democracy. Election will be cheaper, transparent and eliminate killings. Buhari has a responsibility.  Would you agree that the anti-corruption fight of President Buahri is one sided? I am sure that he is going to deal with corruption squarely. I see him jailing many people. He is going to do it for the country. He believes, he is going to give account. You can see what will happen, I understand it is very difficult he is surrounded by people who are not on the same page with him when it comes to corruption, he will rise to the occasion.