The defection of members of the opposition PDP led by Pastor Osagie-Ize-Iyamu to the APC in Edo State has further intensified the internal wrangling in the ruling party, PATRICK OCHOGA writes It is no longer news that the love-lost between the  National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State appears to have defiled all political remedies in the battle over the 2020 governorship election in the state. No doubt, Oshiomhole and his supporters are determined to deny the incumbent governor, Obaseki the APC ticket to contest the governorship election while the governor and his supporters who have fallen out with Oshiomhole are insisting that Obaseki must be allowed to run for second term in office. However, the back and forth supremacy battle within the Edo APC family which have continued to heat up the political tempo in the state literally paralyzed the state capital last week when former governor Oshiomhole and his supporters flouted an order of the Inspector General of Police to suspend a political rally to receive a former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu back into the APC. Ize-Iyamu is rumoured in certain quarters to have been promised by the national chairman of the APC governorship ticket come 2020. The decampee in the 2016 governorship election was the main opponent to Obaseki. He however, lost the election to the incumbent governor, who won the election with the support of Oshiomhole. Ordinarily, the harvest of decampees by any political parties should have been a joyous occasion; however, the scenario that played out in Edo state last week was a show of strength between Obaseki and Oshiomhole. Obaseki, a few days to the planned Ize-Iyamu’s rally into the APC had denied knowledge of such political event citing strong security concern over the rally. The governor had insisted that as leader of the state Chapter of the APC, he is not aware of the proposed rally by the party in the state. He said checks with the state Chairman of the APC, Anselm Ojezua Esq., also indicated that the party was not organising any rally whatsoever in the state. The governor, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, apparently referring to members of the Edo Political Movement (EPM)  warned those he described as trouble troublemakers not to breach the peace enjoyed in the state. According to him, “We want to reiterate that we are not aware of any rally being organised in the state by the APC. As the leader of the party, it is only proper that the governor is made aware of any such rally. But as at today, we are not aware of any rally, as there has not been communication between the Governor’s office and the party chairman to that effect. “As a former National Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and founding member of the APC, Chief Tony Momoh, has recently averred that the governor of a ruling party in a state remains the leader of the party in the state. So, as leader of the party, the governor not being aware of such a rally, only goes to show that it is suspect. “We want to consequently warn troublemakers to steer clear of the state and not attempt actions that could lead to breach of peace. During the last security meeting, we reviewed the situation in the state and zeroed in on the rising cult clashes in the state. Relevant security agencies have been put on notice to check the incident and ensure that people celebrate the yuletide season in peace.” On his part, Ojezua insisted that the party was not holding a rally in the state, warning against the breach of peace by provocative actions of individuals who want to bring the name and character of the party in the state to disrepute. In an earlier statement, Ojezua said neither Obaseki, who is the leader of the APC in the state nor any other leader of the party is aware of the purported declaration rally, adding, “It is therefore highly provocative and capable of creating breach of peace.” The politician however urged members of the APC in the state not to have anything to do with the event, adding, “The organisers of that event are sufficiently seasoned and experienced as politicians to know the proper procedure and tradition usually attendant to this sort of event.” It was learnt that the anger of the state government was the deliberate attempt by the Oshiomhole’s group to undermine the state governor who is the leader of the party in the state. However, last Thursday, the crisis within the state APC assumed a higher dimension when hundreds of APC youths in solidarity with the governor staged a protest round major streets and finally converged at the Benin Airport where  Oshiomhole was expected to arrive Benin for the rally to receive Ize-Iyamu. Temper was however, let loose as they shut down free flow of vehicular movement for several hours. Burn fire was made at the main exit gate and some vehicles were set ablaze in the protest. Prior to the protest, it was gathered Oshiomhole had received a letter from the Inspector General of Police which granted permission for the rally to hold as planned. The letter was titled, “Re-Request for the deployment of police officers to provide security for the All Progressives Congress, APC, rally at Garrick” and signed by Assistant Commissioner of Police, Idowu Owohunwa, Principal Staff Officer to the IGP. The letter read: “I am directed by the Inspector General of Police to extend his warm compliments and acknowledge receipt of your Excellency’s letter of 10th December, 2019 on the above underlined subject. “I am to respectfully inform your Excellency that the Inspector General of Police has approved the request and has directed the commissioner of police, Edo State Command, to provide adequate security for the event as requested.” Confusion however set in when another letter suspending the rally also emanated from the Inspector General of Police and addressed to state deputy governor, Philip Shaibu. It was reliably gathered that the letter from the IGP suspending the rally was not unconnected with the obvious growing tension an attempt to breach security in the state According to the letter dated December 12 and addressed to the state Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, the IGP ordered the suspension of the rally, following growing tension between the camp of  Obaseki and Oshiomhole. The deputy governor had gone to the IG to complain that there would be breach of security should the rally be allowed to go on because Obaseki, as the Chief Security Officer of the state, was not aware of it. The IGP’s letter, signed by Owohunwa,  read, “I am directed by the Inspector-General of Police to convey his warmest regards and to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency’s letter  ODG.134/59 of December 12, 2019, on the above underlined subject. “In cognisance of the security consequences of the proposed mega rally, I am to confirm that the Inspector-General of Police has directed the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command, to emplace appropriate security framework that is directed at suspending the rally until further notice “He has also been directed to summon a meeting of all parties involved in the political development with a view to engaging them towards giving effect to his directives in overriding internal security interest.” Shaibu had insisted that if the governor that is the leader of the party and the party that he leads wants to hold a rally in his own state and he has not authorised it neither is aware of it, such a rally cannot hold. He added that that the national chairman is suspended from the state’s chapter of the party, noting that he (Oshiomhole) does not have the locus to preside over any issue that concerns the party in the state. “So, the man that must give voice to whatever is the APC in terms of governance as enshrined in the constitution is the leader of the party in the state; that is the governor”, he . In an attempt to ensure that no such rally is held, the state government in a letter issued the same day of the rally placed a total ban on political rallies, demonstration and processions in the state citing rising security concerns occasioned by the spike in protests around Benin metropolis. In a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie Esq., the government expressed concerns over actions capable of breaching public peace in the wake of plans by mischief-makers to organise an unauthorised rally in defiance of the directives of the Inspector General of Police (IGP). The government warned all property owners that any venue used for activities in breach of its orders shall have its right of occupancy immediately revoked and forfeited to the Edo State Government, noting that it will not allow any person to turn the state into a battlefield. According to him, “The Government of Edo State has, over the past few days, made clear its position that the plans by some identified mischief-makers to organise an unauthorised political rally in Benin City, was capable of leading to a breakdown of public peace and also a danger to the persons and property of Edo citizens. “The events of yesterday, 12th December, 2019, were a scary prelude to the absolute mayhem which these irresponsible activities would generate if left unchecked. “In defiance of the clear and publicised instruction of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), calling off the proposed rally owing to the security implications, these desperate persons are presently shopping around for alternative venues to carry out their incendiary activities.” Noting that the primary purpose of government is the protection of life and property, he said “the government of Edo State has placed a total and complete ban on all political rallies, demonstrations and/or processions in any part of Edo State. “The Government has further directed all security agencies to deal firmly with all persons (no matter how highly placed), who act in breach of this directive.” The state government also warned parents and guardians “to advise their children and wards not to allow themselves to be used as cannon-fodder in aid of the misguided political ambition and ego of people, whose own children reside and school abroad.” However, the faction loyal to Oshiomhole dared Obaseki as Ize-Iyamu relocated the rally to his compound where the rally was eventually held in an apparent disobedience to the state government and the IGP’s order. Oshiomhole, who was in Benin for the mega rally but was reportedly placed under house arrest and tlcould thus not attend the rally as planned. But addressing newsmen on the political imbroglio, Oshiomhole, while denying that he was not under surveillance as reported accused the Nigeria Police for allegedly providing cover for thugs to perpetuate violence that rocked Benin City Friday. Comrade Oshiomhole said the police watched as thugs gained access to the Bénin Airport with the intention of preventing him from arriving Benin City to attend a rally of the All Progressives Congress. Comrade Oshiomhole said the Police planned to create mayhem so that they could blame him and also refused to provide security for him. “The leadership quality of a man is tested under excessive provocation. If it was my old self, I will not only go there but I will make speech that  by now the battle line is drawn. As National Chairman, I had to pay the price by abstaining from going there so that I deny the IG and Edo Police Command to go and kill people and blame it on me. “I am embarrassed that the IGP will write me a letter informing me on the strength of my application which I informed him of our intention to do a rally. We informed police not for license so that they can earn their salary. It is not for them to grant permission. I thought as National Chairman, I should be formal. I delivered the letter myself so that it can be more personal. “He convey to me that he has directed the police to provide full security so that the exercise can have full security. The IG knows the political value of Pastor Ize-Iyamho joining us. What I am not able to understand is how the same IG could be alleged to send a letter to Philip Shaibu that the rally will not hold. The party is not run by the government, it is run by the party. The business of people joining us is the responsibility of the state chapter who invited me to join them to receive Pastor Ize-Iyamu. “The police supervised and superintendented over this violence even as the IG has given me a letter. As at that time no letter had been issued. For police to claim they are unable to secure the Airport road, as reportes, I asked you to explain what Edo people went through yesterday. Benin was locked down just to oblige the Deputy Governor or the government of Edo State.” Oshiomhole, however, said he was happy that the rally held successfully and that the APC was poised to win future elections. Oshiomhole accused the governor of blocking every avenue for peace to be achieved in Edo APC, adding that the governor is fighting over second term ticket without fighting to win the heart of the electorates. “Our confidence about winning the next election is better assured than yesterday. Let me send a message to Philip. This is not student unionism. Violence will not take him anywhere. It can only compound his problem. Everybody is aware these thugs were organised with the approval of Edo State Police Command. That guy whose car was burnt. Do you think he will vote for the APC? He queried.