Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has rallied opposition against the $29.6 billion loan being sought by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, saying it is irresponsible. The former president in a statement he personally signed said the fact that Nigeria currently budgets more money for debt servicing (N2.7 trillion), than she does on capital expenditure (N2.4 trillion) is already an indicator that she has borrowed more money than she can afford to borrow. Noting that Nigeria had taken almost as much foreign debt in the last three years, as she had taken in the thirty years before 2015 combined, he called on Nigeria’s youth to identify the Senator representing their senatorial zones and write to them and urge them to vote against this request. He warned that the loans, which would be paid by the children of today’s youths, would would be squandered by what he called “ravenous cabal who do not have the word enough in their vocabulary.” Describing the spate of borrowings as  unprecedented and frightening the former vice president said Nigerian have emerged as the world headquarters for extreme poverty and the global capital for out of school children. He questioned what the funds borrowed do far are used for while alleging that this administration took delivery of $322 million Abacha loot in 2018 and claimed it shared it out to poor Nigerians, only to obtain a $328 million loan from China, allegedly for ICT development the very next month. Referring to what he called revelation from “leaked memos” on alleged unprecedented revenues in the Federal Inland Revenue Service and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Atiku said contrary to claims that Nigerian is not making enough, she is poor because she is not making the right decisions. The statement he personally signed read thus “The fact that Nigeria currently budgets more money for debt servicing (₦2.7 trillion), than we do on capital expenditure (N2.4 trillion) is already an indicator that we have borrowed more money than we can afford to borrow. And the thing is that debt servicing is not debt repayment. Debt servicing just means that we are paying the barest minimum allowable by our creditors. “And while spending 50% of our current revenue on debt servicing, this administration wants to take further loans of $29.6 billion! To say that this is irresponsible is itself an understatement. “As a businessman, one of the very first things I learnt is that you do not take loans except you are expanding your business. Even as an individual, when your income cannot fund your lifestyle, you are challenged to grow your income, not your borrowings’’. “Even if this administration borrows $1 trillion, it will never be enough because their challenge is one of capacity. They are not using the funds they already have wisely. They do not need more debt. They need more intellectual capacity.