The Hepatitis Zero Nigeria Commission yesterday offered free hepatitis B screening and vaccination to members of staff of LEADERSHIP Newspaper Group in Abuja. Speaking during the exercise,  the Commission’s Secretary, Victoria Adeoyo Olaitan, said that the essence of the exercise was to screen everybody, vaccinate those that are tested negative and refer those are test positive. She also said that the Commission decided to include vaccination because, it would amount to a waste of resources to carry out screening without vaccination since hepatitis B has no cure and the only way to prevent it is taking the vaccine which comes in three doses. Olaitan identified lack of awareness as part of limitations to achieving zero hepatitis by 2030, while urging LEADERSHIP and other media organisations to play their role in creating awareness about the disease. She also tasked government on policy implementation and health system that actually works, saying, “we have a document that has not been implemented. We will love to see government implement this document. “There should be adult vaccine in the hospital, when people go to the hospital and they are tested negative, they should be vaccinated to prevent them from contracting the virus later”. “There is need for adequate awareness because hepatitis B management is very expensive and majurity of Nigerias cannot afford it. Viral load test alone is about N40,000 and I ve seen a lot of people who cannot go for the test after being tested positive because they cannot afford it. “Hepatitis B is not something we can afford to have in Nigeria, it is more deadly than HIV. This is because the virus survives on the surface for seven days, making it highly transmittable.” While commending management of LEADERSHIP for allowing the exercise, Olaitan advised Nigerians to be receptive and stop hiding behind religion. LEADERSHIP recall that the president of the Commission, Mike Omotosho, recently, lamented that although hepatitis B was vaccine preventable, it was not getting the needed attention as a public health concern especially among the citizenry. Omotosho had called for deliberate efforts by relevant stakeholders to eradicate hepatitis, stressing on the need for an effective advocacy, awareness, provision of counselling, viral screening, vaccination, referrals and treatment , to ensure zero transmission of the virus by 2030.