Social entrepreneur Sonnia Agu is currently in Cairo, the Egypt capital for a World Youth Forum (WYF) doing Nigeria proud with her entrepreneurial spirit. A devout believer in the Nigerian dream with over 7 years of strategic and diversified professional experience in social work, media, aviation, oil and gas as well as business Development, Sonia was specially invited to the forum organised by Egyptian President, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi for a 4-day programme. According to the organiser the event tagged: World Youth Forum (WYF) is a platform built by promising youths which is being used to send message of peace, prosperity and progress to the entire world. It also engages the youths from around the globe in an enrich set up, allowing them to exchange views and recommend initiatives to decision –makers and influential figures. “The forum is a chance for you to engage with top policy makers, network with promising youth from the region and the world that are determined to make our world a better place for everyone. The topic for this year is Industrial revolution, food security, and union for the Mediterranean”, the organizer noted.. Sonnia, was also part of the team that hosted the Nigeria at 100 Centenary hosted by the then President, His Excellency, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan GCFR. With her wealth of experience, the entrepreneur was chosen to be part of the 2019 World Youth leaders from Nigeria billed to discuss, learn and proffer solutions for Africa and the world. Similarly, in 2019, she was invited to Gambia to represent Nigeria in the African Youth Commission’s 3rd Pan African Conference hosted by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to discuss how to achieve the UN’s 2063 United Africa Goal. Sonia, a native of Okija in Anambra state, and a transformational leader has made lots of positive contributions and her plan for Nigeria can be easily seen in her pet project called the Sapio Club. Speaking on the club, she said “It is a club I started while I was trying to do my PhD in Cambridge. My professor told me that the next revolution is that of the mind. African is somewhat behind in the other kinds of Revolution that we have. I see myself as a transformation leader. I am so passionate and enthusiastic about Nigeria. I have done a lot of capacity building seminars, women empowerment schemes that have brought international recognitions.” In 2013, she was called to work under the office of the Special Adviser to the President on Ethics and Morals, Mrs. Sarah Jibril where she co-founded the initiative called Youths on Ethics and Social (YES). According to reports, a WYF Ambassador is a dedicated future leader that utilises his or her strong interpersonal skills for a better future. WYF Ambassadors Program brings together talented, promising and influential young people from different countries across the world to capitalize on the WYF’s role and vision. They are expected to represent the WYF in several activities addressing global courses that are guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Beyond that, Sonnia has taken a bold step to be a good representative of her great country-Nigeria in Egypt