Nigeria’s  telecom firm, 9mobile, has again lowered the barrier to roaming service as the telco launched its revolutionary low rate three-piece roaming packages. AFOLASHADE AZEEZ reports The hopes of anyone traveling abroad for business or leisure is to stay in touch with family, friends and associates back home. Roaming one’s mobile telephone line while overseas can be a pain, however, for many travellers due to the associated high costs.  From experience, once one step into another country and the local network detects your phone number, you’re deemed to be roaming and charged a higher rate when you access the internet to check your emails, or you make or receive calls. Same applies if you send or receive an SMS. At the advent of Global System of Mobile telecommunications (GSM) services in Nigeria, in 2001 and due to limited knowledge about roaming service, many travellers suffered incidences of bill shock. That is, they received higher bills than expected when they roamed their phones abroad. But despite increased knowledge, a significant number of subscribers are still ignorant of how roaming works. The problem of bill shock still seems intractable. Of course, some subscribers who are eager to remain connected to their loved ones back in Nigeria eventually resort to devising creative workarounds. For example, to avoid paying exorbitant roaming charges, some use free WiFi at the airports or anywhere it is available while others purchase local SIM cards and temporarily drop their local numbers. Some travellers choose to only send text messages and avoid online activities however important until they return home. Ade Otunla, an entrepreneur, recalled how he coped in the early days when he didn’t know how to reduce roaming charges. “I only sent text messages to my wife when I travelled. I didn’t make voice calls or use the internet except it was available for free. Retrospectively, I can’t believe I really did all those when I could have approached my network provider to get an affordable plan,” he said. There are many more Nigerians that share similar experiences to Mr Otunla’s. However, to their credit, the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) have lived up to expectation by identifying high cost of roaming as a serious pain point for most travellers, and they have continuously responded with solutions by introducing various roaming packages. Since it commenced operations in Nigeria 11 years ago, customer-friendly telecom company, 9mobile, has stood out by consistently offering pocket-friendly roaming rates amongst other innovative products and services. Only recently, it further affirmed commitment to enabling its subscribers to stay in touch with their loved ones anywhere across the globe with the launch of affordable roaming packages that offer lowest voice calls, SMS and data rates for customers travelling to the United States, United Arab Emirates, and 44 other European and African countries. The roaming packages are ‘US Super 50 Offer’, ‘UAE Super 50 Offer’ and ‘Euro Afrique Offer’. With 9mobile ‘Super 50 Offer’, customers on the network can now make or receive calls for as low as N50 per minute, send or receive SMS at N50 per page, as well as use data at N50/MB on a pay-as-you-go basis. With these latest offers, the operator is enabling its customers travelling to any of these 46 destinations to stay connected with their loved ones back home without any inconvenience. The US ‘Super 50 Offer’ is currently the lowest package offered by any Nigerian network operator to customers travelling to the USA. Calls within the US and calls to Nigeria are charged at N50 per minute; incoming calls at N50 per minute; SMS at N50 per page; while PAYG data is now N50/MB.  The offer is in partnership with renowned US Telecom Company, AT&T, and Etisalat UAE, amongst others. On the UAE ‘Super 50 Offer’ roaming package in partnership with Etisalat UAE, customers enjoy discounted rates for voice calls at N50 within UAE and calls back to Nigeria, SMS at N25 per SMS, and data at N25 per MB. Customers also benefit from free 100 minutes per month to receive calls on attaining a recharge threshold of N5000. The ‘Euro Afrique Offer’ is available in 44 top European and African destinations. It offers customers the opportunity to make local calls within these destinations at N100 per minute and calls back to Nigeria at the same price. The offer is currently available in partnership with carriers like Vodafone, Orange, Vodacom, and Airtel Networks in Germany, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Spain, Portugal, Sweden and The Netherlands. Nigerians travelling to African countries including Egypt, Congo DR, Botswana, Morocco, Mozambique, Ivory Coast and South Africa, will also enjoy the offer. To enjoy 15GB of data in Nigeria or 200MB while roaming in these destinations, all you need do is dial the activation code *4184*1# at the cost of N5,000 with 30 days’ validity. Commenting on the roaming offers, Acting Director, Marketing, 9mobile, ‘Layi Onafowokan, said they aligned with 9mobile’s unwavering commitment to boost superior customer experience by enabling subscribers to stay connected with family, friends, and business partners while in the US, UAE, Europe, and Africa on very affordable rates. He said, “We know that customers can be genuinely concerned about voice and data tariffs outside the country and as a result, many Nigerians refrain from roaming their lines while abroad. However, these packages always deliver superior roaming experience without having to worry about excessive bills or spend.”  Indeed, 9mobile customers embarking on foreign trips to the selected 46 countries during this holiday period and beyond need not worry. Their ever-reliable and caring network has got their back. Staying in touch with folks back home in Nigeria will be a piece of cake.