The National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja has ordered an oil firm, Total E & P Nigeria limited to pay some of its sacked personnel after it ruled that the termination of their employment was unlawful. The claimant, Mr Felix Adariku, suing for and on behalf of all service contract personnel number 257, dragged Total E & P Nigeria Limited (1st defendant) and five others before Justice E. N. Agbakoba over the illegal sack by the defendants. Delivering judgement on the matter, the presiding judge, Justice Agbakoba held that the short payment of remuneration and non-payment of allowances and bonuses to the claimants in accordance with the Local Technical Assistance Services Grid of Rates for 2013 and the conditions of service for contract service personnel 2013, was gross violation and breach of the terms of employment relationship between the claimants and Total E & P Nigeria limited. Justice Agbakoba described the action of the defendants as ‘unfair labour practice’, contrary to global best labour practices and international labour standards. Furthermore, the court held that the failure of the 1st defendant to issue the claimants a written statement containing the particulars of their employment within 3 months of resumption of their employment is unlawful and unfair labour practice, contrary to global labour practices and international labour standards. They equally declared that the 1st defendant is the employer of the claimants whom the former earlier contended that it was not responsible for the claimant’s employment. However, dissatisfied with the National Industrial Court of Nigeria’s verdict, the defendants approached the Court of Appeal Division in Abuja, urging it to nullify the lower court’s judgement. According to Total E & P Nigeria limited, the presiding judge erred in law when he held that the claimants were lawfully engaged by the appellants. In a notice of appeal sited by our correspondent, the appellants contended that the claimants (respondents), were not their employees, and therefore, are not entitled to any payment of three months’ salary in lieu of sack notice. Meanwhile, the appeal has been fixed for hearing on 14 January, 2020.