The former ECOWAS Commissioner for Political Affairs, Peace and Security, Hajiya Salamatu Hussaini, has commended the activities of Kebbi State Sickle Cell Association (KESCA) is especially for presenting a draft bill to state House of Assembly aimed at curbing the sickle cell disorder circle in the state. Hajiya Hussaini, made the commendation in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday at the end of the year charity event of KESCA. She said that If the bill was passed into law, it would give succour to people living with sickle cell disorder in the state through financial and medical support. She highlighted the prevalence of sickle cell “It is estimated that the about 43 million people have sickle cell disease, while additional 43 million have sickle cell trait. “About 80 percent of sickle cell disease cases are believed to occur in Sub-Saharan Africa.; it also occurs relatively frequently in part of India, the Arabian Peninsula and among people of African origin living in other part of the world. She said “In 2018, it resulted in about 114,800 deaths”. According to her, over 40 million Nigerians are careers of the sickle cell gene of which Kebbi, with the population of over three million has about 25 per cent carriers amongst its population. Hussaini also lamented that the disease remained epidemic in the country due to lack of proper awareness, funds and government policies. She acknowledged the outstanding efforts made by the association in creating awareness in communities as well as engaging with state government and lawmakers in order to get support for sickle cell carriers Earlier, the Coordinator of the association in the state, Hajiya Hadiza Yahaya Shantali expressed worry that the sickle cell disease patients and families experienced financial and emotional trauma in dealing with the disorder. She said that the disease was more prevalent in less- privileged homes which made it pathetic when care was not taken. “The number of patients we lost to SCD battles grows by the day due to lack of care and enough funds to take care of them by their families. “We can’t keep quite on this,” Shantali said. The coordinator also called on stakeholders for support and care for individuals living with the disorder. Highlights of the end of the year charity event featured free genotype and certification, free consultation, counseling and distribution of free routine drugs as well as interactive session with Dr. Vikas Dau from Institute of Excellent Bone Marrow Transplant New Delhi, India.