The Nigeria economy is dependent on the workings of the seaports and any distortion in the supply chain will affect production and well-being of the citizens. YUSUF BABALOLA writes NIMASA 10% Growth Forecast For The Industry Early in the year, the federal government projected a 10 per cent growth in the Nigerian maritime industry.  In the forecast unveiled by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) titled, ‘Harnessing the Maritime and Shipping Sector for Sustainable Growth’, major plans covered by the forecast are the economic environment, the maritime industry (local and global), regulatory framework, and emerging opportunities and challenges. The director-general of NIMASA, Dr Dakuku Peterside had at the unveiling said the forecast will give direction to investors and stakeholders in the industry in their planning and investment decisions as part of efforts to attract more foreign direct investment to the economy.  Peterside, said the 2019 forecast will be addressing how emerging trends in the global maritime industry would affect the Nigerian maritime sector as well as domestic factors that will influence the sector. He said the maritime industry held a lot of promise for Nigeria. According to him, “The maritime sector has the potential of contributing at least 10 per cent of Nigeria’s GDP in no distant future, as Nigeria has the biggest market in Africa; and generates about 65-67 per cent of cargo throughput in West Africa, and 65 per cent of all cargo heading for these regions will most likely end up in the Nigerian market.” According to the forecast, the outlook for the economy in 2019 reflects, on the global side, concerns about a substantial global economic growth slowdown, likely higher US interest rates, a stronger dollar and volatile oil prices, possibly averaging below $60pb, and domestically, the impact of sentiments surrounding the 2019 general elections and post-electoral transition. Closure Of Land Borders In October 2019, the federal government ordered the complete closure of all Nigerian land borders, placing a ban on both legitimate and illegitimate movement of goods in and out of the country. The comptroller-general of Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Col Hameed Ali (rtd.) said the development entails restriction of import and export into Nigeria to the seaports. Speaking at a media briefing on the progress of the joint border security exercise codenamed ‘Operation Ex-swift Response’ formed on August 20, 2019, in four geopolitical zones of the country. The complete closure of the borders affected those in the South-South, South West, North Central and North West, excluding the South East and the North East borders. The NCS, Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), in collaboration with the Armed Forces of Nigeria as well as the Nigerian Police Force and other security agencies are coordinated by the office of the National Security Adviser to better secure the borders and strengthen the nation’s economy and address other trans-border security concerns. The customs boss noted that all import and export of goods from the nation’s land borders remain banned until there is an agreement with neighbouring countries on the kind of goods that should enter and exit Nigeria. According to him, the measure is to enable the security agencies scan the goods entering the country, even as he maintained that all goods must only enter through the legitimate air and sea ports where they can undergo thorough scanning and certified fit for consumption. NPA On Secure Anchorage Area Citing threat to national security and the cost of doing business at the country’s seaport, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) notified the Nigerian Navy of its decision to dismantle the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA), operated on behalf of the Navy by a private company, OMSL Limited. NPA insisted that the security of the country’s waterways was the statutory responsibility of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Marine Police, and Nigerian Navy, which must all ensure a safe and secure Nigeria territorial waters. The move by NPA has been hailed by stakeholders in the maritime sector, who claimed the initiative was timely to stave off a financial burden that the consulting company had brought on them. According to NPA, vessels are charged $2,500 for the first day at the anchorage and $1,500 for subsequent days. Data reveals that it takes between 28 and 30 days for a vessel to exit the anchorage. According to vessel traffic numbers obtained from the NPA, 1,666 vessels called at the Lagos ports alone in a quarter and a minimum of 55 per cent of vessels that call at the Lagos port stays at the SAA. Worried by this, the minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, directed the NPA to write a letter to the Chief of Naval Staff to request that the Navy stopped the operation of the facility. Customs Window For Duty On Smuggled Vehicles The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) early in 2019 opened a platform for vehicle importers, owners and organized vehicle dealers to pay Customs duty on smuggled, undervalued vehicles in the country. The Customs Area Controller, Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone A, Compt Muhammed Aliyu who stated that about 150 car marts were sealed at Victoria Island, Ikoyi and Lekki in Lagos, added that the unit seized over 5,000 bags of foreign rice smuggled into the country. He said the platform was not for already seized or condemned vehicles but assured Nigerians that vehicles voluntarily brought forward by the owners for payment of duty won’t be seized. According to him, the decision to open the platform was to allow Nigerians who drive smuggled or under-valued vehicles to regularise their Customs duty. N2bn Demurrage Surcharge On Importers Also, in the year, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) collaborated with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to help Nigerian importers save N2 billion demmurrage charges from foreign shipping companies. The executive secretary of the council, Barr Hassan Bello at the Sub-regional Summit on Unfair Shipping Surcharges and High Local Shipping Charges at the Ports of West and Central Africa Sub-region held in Abuja said about N2 billion has been saved through the confirmation of reasonableness of demurrage and freight rates by the CBN. Disbursement Of $124m CVFF Indigenous shipowners heaved a sigh of relief as President Muhammadu Buhari approved the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessels Financing Fund (CVFF), 15 years after operation. The CVFF is believed to have accumulated N44.64 billion ($124million) derived from the two per cent of the revenues of the shipowners and has been in operation since 2004. CVFF has remained undisbursed since its creation in 2003, despite cries and efforts by industry operators to access the fund which is under the custody of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). The Federal Ministry of Transport which supervises the agency had cited fears of insincerity on the side of ship owners for not disbursing the fund. But, according to the Act establishing the fund, the minister of Transportation is empowered to establish guidelines for the disbursement of the fund to eligible operators. After approval from the National Assembly, the fund can then be disbursed. The Act also stipulates that selected applicants will send in their companies’ applications for the financing for the procurement of ships to the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, and NIMASA will send the applications to the banks warehousing the fund. The banks are in turn required to carry out a credit risk analysis on the projects of the applicants and if the applicants are creditworthy, the banks will make recommendations to NIMASA that the transactions are worth funding. NIMASA will then forward the recommendations to the minister to review, approve and send for disbursement. NPA Decommissioned BUA Terminal Over Safety The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) decommissioned the BUA, Terminal at the Rivers Ports Complex, Port Harcourt, Rivers State over safety concerns which didn’t go down well with BUA and led to a media war on both sides. The managing director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman at the quarterly stakeholders meeting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State said as a responsible corporate organisation, the authority had to decommission the terminal before casualty is recorded. “We now received a letter from the same BUA drawing our attention to the fact that the condition of the quay wall is of safety concern and it is at the point of collapse and that they are very concerned. “As a responsible regulator, we looked at the state of that quay, having used it for one and half years in that state, we now decommissioned the concession based on health and safety reasons,” she said. “The same BUA has gone to court to restrain NPA from implementing the decommissioning that they highlighted that is of safety concern. We were not planning to embark on contempt of court until BUA wrote us that it is now issue of safety. So, I am curious to what contempt of court this is about?”