Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has said that his Kano State counterpart, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Sanusi Lamido Sanusi II, are favourably disposed to a quick resolution of the raging Kano Emirate crisis. Fayemi said that his discussion with both had shown that they were willing to put the feud behind them. The governor stated this yesterday in Abuja when he briefed President Muhammadu Buhari on the outcome of his peace mission to the state. After the meeting with Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja, Fayemi told State House correspondents that both parties were “desirous of peace”, adding that he had briefed the president on his efforts to end the rift between Ganduje and Sanusi. He said: “Well, the committee has just started its work. You may recall that I have been involved in resolving the problem we have in Kano for sometime. “I have had course as the chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) of working with some key stakeholders in Kano to bring both parties together and what we are doing now is essentially an expanded committee of the elders chaired by former head of state, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar and comprising very distinguished Nigerians and from our forum, myself and Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State, are also members of the committee. “We already had preliminary discussions with both parties and we know that they are desirous of peace in Kano. We have also briefed Mr. President on the mission of this body. It is not a federal government’s body I must say that, but the federal government that is Mr. President is not averse to anything that could assist in ensuring that there is peace in one of the most political vibrant states in our country. “Anything to avoid a volatile situation that may result in an unfortunate development is not wanted and it is our expectation that given the positive response from both His Excellency, the governor, Dr. Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, we would come to a resolution of the problem,” he said. While asserting that Kano is the hotbed of politics in the country, Fayemi said that as a flagship All Progressives Congress (APC) State, “we are very much concerned about reconciling both factions.” Fayemi further said that “if it is not possible we won‘t even be doing this. Everybody is concerned; Kano is the hotbed of politics in this country. Kano is our own flagship state in APC. “But this is not just a party issue; the people that are involved in this primarily are not politicians. The only reason why we are involved is, of course, because Governor Ganduje is our colleague in the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and we are desirous of pushing for peace. “Just as we are doing this, we are interested in what is happening between our brothers in Rivers and Bayelsa States because anything of this nature affects the solidarity in the forum. So, we want to make sure that our forum is one in a non-partisan developmental manner and if there is anything that is wrong, it is my duty and responsibility as the chairman of the forum to bring about peace where possible,” he said. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson, are on the trenches over a court ruling, which ceded the latter’s oil well to the former. On the crisis in Edo State, where the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki are on the warpath, Fayemi said that they have taken steps to resolve it at the party level. According to him, “crisis management in the governors’ forum is not a television matter. I can assure you that we are fully involved in what is happening in Edo State and at the level of the APC governors’ forum, we have engaged both parties, we hosted both parties. “We appealed to them and their supporters, we have taken steps and we are still taking steps to ensure that peace reign in Edo State, but that is not the matter for the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, it’s more of a party issue, but we are involved in that at the level of the party,” he said.  Abdulsalami Leads Committee To Kano Meanwhile, General Abdulsami has led a team of prominent Nigerians to resolve the Ganduje and Sanusi dispute. Members of the reconciliation committee aside Fayemi and Masari, are Alhaji Adamu Fika (Wazirin Fika), Gen. Muhammadu Inuwa Wushishi, Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim (SAN), Dr. Dalhatu Sarki Tafida, Dr. Umaru Mutallab, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, Sheikh Sharif Ibrahim Salehm and Dr. Adamu Fika who would serve as Secretary. It was gathered that the federal government is supportive of the committee’s action which has already contacted all the parties involved in the crisis. The committee allegedly appealed to Ganduje and Sanusi to desist from taking actions that would fuel the crisis as well as allow the members to finish their work. On Sunday, Adamu Fika issued a statement where he charged Kano people to hearken to the calls of their principals. Fika explained that the committee was working with the cooperation of the federal government and in agreement with Ganduje and Sanusi. He said: “Against the background of the crisis in Kano, a matter that has since degenerated into serious tension with the state, with likely consequence on peace and security, and with the possibility of such spilling into neighbouring states, a group of elders, under the chairmanship of General Abdulsalami Abubakar, GCFR, has been formed to intervene and bring about full reconciliation and effective resolution of the matter. “The committee is working with the full understanding and cooperation of the federal government. Initial contact has been made with His Excellency the Governor of Kano, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, as well as with His Highness the Emir of Kano, Sarki Muhammadu Sanusi II. They have each agreed to hold back from taking any further actions until the committee has fully undertaken and finalised this exercise of reconciliation and resolution. “Similarly, they each have undertaken to call on all their supporters and sympathisers, including social media operators, to refrain from making statements, declarations, songs, articles, blogs and all actions inimical to the spirit and process of good order, reconciliation, and good governance. We call on everyone to hearken to this call,” Fika stated.