Cassava’s (Manihot esculenta) production is vital to Nigeria’s economy. We are the highest cassava producer in the world, producing a third more than Brazil and almost double the production capacity of Thailand and Indonesia. As the world’s highest producer, Nigeria, ironically, is not an active participant in cassava trade in the international market. At present, the major states of Nigeria which produce cassava are Anambra, Delta, Edo, Benue, Cross River, Imo, Oyo, and Rivers, and to a lesser extent Kwara and Ondo. Cassava is rich in starch in the form of carbohydrate and has multiple uses.  It is strategically valued for its role in food security, poverty alleviation and as a source of raw materials for agro-allied industries in Nigeria, most especially for production of starch, glue or adhesives.  As food material, a growing middle class and increasing urbanization is fostering innovations both in the processing and in the packaging of cassava. In view of its role in food security and its industrial potential, government at various times has shown interest in cassava value chain development. The Federal Government has developed and introduced several varieties of cassava which are pest resistant as production in the country is hampered by problems such as green mite, cassava mealybug and the variegated grasshopper infestation. Diseases affecting cassava crop are mosaic disease, bacterial blight, anthracnose, and root rot in order to increase production. Speaking on some of government’s initiatives to boost cassava production in Nigeria, the director-general of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Prof. Hussaini Ibrahim, highlighted that an initiative led by key stakeholders including HarvestPlus, International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and the Gates Foundation has been underway since 2010. According to him, the project, Bio-Cassava Plus: Nutrient Dense Cassava Products for Improved African Livelihoods, focuses on promoting the production and adoption of vitamin A rich cassava in Nigeria to provide up to 40 per cent of daily vitamin A needs. “One of the major achievements of the programme is the dissemination of 3 bio-fortified cassava varieties to over 136,586 farmers using Oyo-West, Imo-East, Akwa Ibom-South and Benue North as hubs to reach all other states. In addition, a number of food processors are engaging in the use of yellow cassava roots to increase vitamin A contents. “Also a master plan has highlighted interventions to improve productivity and competitiveness at the farm and processing levels, effective marketing in the domestic, regional and international arenas, financial investments, institutional support, sector wide linkages, and capacity building. It additionally provides the framework for the implementation of the cassava sector development,” he stated. Ibrahim pointed out the major stakeholders in the cassava sector most especially, the Nigeria Cassava Growers Association, and IITA were actively involved in the initiative with the help of the US Aid for International Development fund. Under the USAID programme, 5,000 cassava growers were furnished with high yielding varieties of cassava for planting. He said the aim was to upgrade the cassava stock among small growers, so as to allow farmers to raise their production from the current 12-15 tonnes of cassava per hectare to 40-50 tonnes per hectare. “In addition, various investments are being made in research and production along the value chain in order to revolutionize the outlook of cassava in Nigeria. The latest of such efforts was the Rockefeller Cassava Innovation Challenge, a global competition, launched by the Rockefeller Foundation in partnership with Dalberg and IITA. The challenge seeks to address food loss and spoilage in the cassava value chain in Nigeria. The challenge provided up to $1 million, as well as technical assistance from Dalberg and IITA, to further develop novel solutions that will increase the shelf life of cassava,” he added. Speaking exclusively to our correspondent, the IITA director for West Africa Hub, Dr Robert Asiedu, said the research to prolong the storage root of the crop was very important because it is related to a delay in the deterioration of starch in cassava storage roots following harvest. He said: “When cassava is harvested, the storage roots have to be processed within a short period of time (about 24 hours) because of enzyme activity. This puts a severe time limitation on the time between harvesting of cassava storage roots, transportation from harvest sites to processing centres, and processing them into more stable products. The transformed cassava will have inactivation of the enzyme that causes deterioration of starch when the roots are harvested.” Highlighting other initiatives by the government and development partners seeking to encourage farmers to increase production and processing along the cassava value chain, he pointed to the N13.6 billion cassava and rice intervention fund managed by the Bank of Industry and the Cassava Bread Fund. To facilitate farmers’ access to finance, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) strengthened the Bank of Agriculture to facilitate access to credit to farmers. In that same vein, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), in collaboration with the FMARD, established the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme (CACS) that provides farmers with access to credit facilities at an interest rate of nine per cent. “In addition to these efforts, the Sahel Capital is at the forefront of initiatives to improve the integrated seed systems, in collaboration with the CGIAR research program on roots, tubers and bananas (RTB), National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC), National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI), International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Catholic Relief Services (CRS), Context Global Development, and FERA (UK). The consortium is improving availability of seeds and consequently, yields. Also, in view of its increasing importance, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation funded economically four-year sustainable and integrated cassava seed system in Nigeria (BASICS) project. “The project aims to establish an innovative, commercially and economically viable stem business model. This model seeks to increase yield by 40 per cent by implementing the rapid propagation technology-autotropic hydroponic system (SAH) which will enable smallholder farmers to provide high quality cassava roots to industrial processors and thus improve their income. BASICS’ vision is that by 2020, smallholder cassava growers will be buying high quality stems of their preferred varieties and planting them with improved agronomic practices,” he added. He further said the council initiated a cassava development programme as far back as 1991, in line with the Presidential Initiative on Cassava and in fulfillment of the council’s mandate of optimal utilization of the nation’s abundant natural resources, adding the programme was geared towards increased production, processing and utilization of cassava for food and as industrial raw material using a multidisciplinary and multi institutional approach. The RMRDC boss stated the council also developed feasibility and technical reports on many investment projects including cassava starch production, prepared investment profiles on cassava flour production, and has been able to sponsor various R&D projects on various cassava development projects in several tertiary institutions and research institutes across the country.