There was a pandemonium in Akure, the Ondo state capital yesterday, following the killing of a policeman and setting ablaze a church, Sotitobire Miracle Centre where a one-year old boy, Gold Kolawole was kidnapped over a month ago by some angry youths. Also, about six houses and five vehicles were razed by the youths who stormed the church headquarters in the Akure metropolis at the early hours of the day. A source told LEADERSHIP that three persons were shot while many others, including some passers-by were wounded. It was gathered that some security operatives who were deployed to the scene to maintain law and order fled the scene as the irate mobbed them. As at the time of filing this report, the identity of the murdered policeman could not be ascertained. The founder of the church, Prophet Alfa Babatunde was said to be in the custody of DSS for about ten days now following a petition written by the parents of the missing child, Mr and Mrs Temitope Kolawole. It was also learnt that irate youths were enraged that members of the church still conduct services despite the development. However, the state police public relations officer, Mr Femi Joseph, in his reaction, said that the misleading information that caused the incident was spearheaded by a popular TV station. Joseph said ,“It is most unfortunate that this misleading information spearheaded by a popular TV station, ignited a spontaneous reactions from the people, leading to wanton destruction of properties and injuries to many.” According to him, “The Ondo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public particularly the people of Ondo state that they should disregard the rumours making the rounds that the body of a recently declared missing boy in the state has been exhumed from Sotitobire church in Akure. “The church building was also set ablaze by irate youths. Some of our officers dispatched to the scene to contain the situation were pelted with stones, with many of them sustaining injuries. Their patrol vehicle was also badly damaged. “This rejoinder became necessary to disabuse the minds of many Nigerians who might have fallen for this wicked lies and propaganda. The public should also not be hoodwinked by reports that the command has abandoned the investigation of the incident, as the case file is already on the way to the DPP for legal advice.” “Notwithstanding this latest incident, more reinforcement has been sent to the scene to contain the situation”.