The Food and Agriculture Organisation ( FAO ) has begun the distribution of dry Season farming inputs to 35,000 vulnerable households in Boko Haram ravaged northeast states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. Speaking during the Flagging off of the distribution on Thursday at Farm centre Maiduguri, the FAO Head Northeast Sub – Office Maiduguri, Al Hassan Cisse , expressed his gratitude to Borno state governor, Babagana Umara Zulum for his government’s support that has enabled FAO and its partners to continue providing agriculture-based humanitarian and development assistance in the state. Cisse said:” Today, we launch the 2019 dry season support, targeting around 35 000 vulnerable farming households in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. The dry season is an important season for farmers in the region. The harvest from dry season cultivation provides income for farmers with which they address food and other household needs during the lean season. A post-harvest survey of our 2018 dry season support indicated farmers earned average of N24,500 from okra sales, N40,000 from onion sales, N43 200 from tomato sales, and N78,400 from rice. ” The income generated was useful in addressing household needs. Noteworthy is the report of a beneficiary in Monguno who built a house from his earnings. Cisse further said that under the FAO support this season, beneficiaries will receive mix of vegetable seeds including okra, amaranth, onion, tomato, cabbage carrot, and rice seeds. He said with collaboration with the federal government and the Nigerian military on the transportation of fertilizer, FAO will also distribute 25kg bags of NPK 15-15-15 fertilizer to the farmers. He said FAO has a thorough quality assurance procedure that guarantees the integrity of interventions, adding that they pay utmost attention to the quality of inputs before distributing to farmers. Continuing, Cisse said:” This reflects in our detailed assessment of irrigation water pumps which will finally be distributed to benefit more than 4000 farmers in Jere, Konduga, Bama and Monguno LGAs. ” These pumps will further enhance crop performance especially during this dry season cultivation. Since 2016, FAO’s support in the northeast region has reached more than 3 million persons. ” FAO’s programmes are hinged on protecting livelihoods and enhancing the productive capacities of smallholders; we believe this will encourage self-production of food and promote self-sufficiency. ” Through FAO’s livestock restocking campaign, beneficiaries are gradually rebuilding their asset base. Beneficiaries sell their bulls and reinvest the earnings in livelihood opportunities. ” When their goats reproduce, women sell to earn income; poultry beneficiaries also boost their household nutrition and earn income from the sale of eggs. A recent survey revealed that about 89 percent of our livestock beneficiaries now have acceptable food consumption score. ” Generating rural employment for the state’s teeming population will be crucial to sustaining peace. FAO is implementing initiatives aimed at boosting employment, especially for youth and women”, he added.