It was a historic moment, as the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA) approved the elevation of Arch. Yemisi Suswam, wife of former Benue State Governor, Sen Gabriel Suswam, into its College of Fellows. The institute, which gave the approval at its meeting of August 28, 2019, in Abuja, conveyed the information via a letter signed by its General-Secretary Sani Saulawa, formally inducted her in Abuja. Elevation into the College entitles members to have a Fellowship Registration Number and, after the investiture, authorisation to use the professional affix, FNIA, after their names. Speaking on behalf of all inductees Arch. Yemisi called on Nigerians to stop patronizing quacks to avert building collapse. She decried the increase in the rate of building collapse, despite advancement in technology and the involvement of non-professionals in the sector. She said failures were not expected within the projected lifespan of structures, saying it happens due to human imperfections, among others. Arc Yemisi said the causes of building collapse are traceable to many factors. ‘’Firstly, buildings collapse due to human errors such as faulty design, faulty construction, and use of substandard building materials, negligence, omissions, ignorance, quackery, corruption, and sabotage.’’ She also urged women in the profession to be more resilient and not feel intimidated. In his goodwill message, Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel said the recognition was as a result of twenty-five years of passionate dedication and the huge contributions she has made to the advancement of the profession of architecture in Nigeria. Udom was optimistic that honour on Arch. Yemisi will galvanize her to do more to deepen and extend the defining layers of the profession and inspire the younger ones to be more passionate and focused on distilling and projecting the finer elements of the profession. According to him, ‘’My wife, Her Excellency, Deaconesses Martha Udom Emmanuel and I join your family, numerous friends, colleagues and associates to congratulate you on the auspicious occasion of your investiture as a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Architects (FNIA). ‘’This great recognition is a result of twenty-five years of passionate dedication and the huge contributions you have made to the advancement of the profession of architecture in Nigeria. ‘’I am sure this honour will galvanize you to do even more to deepen and extend the defining layers of the profession and inspire the younger ones to be more passionate and focused on distilling and projecting the finer elements of the profession. ‘’By this investiture, you have made manifest the inspiring words of John Quincy Adams ‘If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.’ May the leadership role which this investiture as a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Architects confers on you, lead others especially the younger ones to learn more, do more and become more in the profession.’’ Her heartthrob, former governor of Benue state, Senator Gabriel Torwua Suswam, in his congratulatory message said her professional advancement clearly demonstrates the virtues of hard work, commitment, and competence which she commendably exhibited in the discharge of her professional responsibilities as an Architect of high repute. In his words: ‘’It is with a deep sense of honour and happiness that I write to congratulate you on your elevation into the College of Fellows of the Nigerian Institute of Architects. ‘’Your professional advancement clearly demonstrates the virtues of hard work, commitment, and competence which you commendably exhibited in the discharge of your professional responsibilities as an Architect of high repute. ‘’As you have been given the highest honour in your profession, our children and I proudly join your colleagues and numerous well-wishers to encourage you to continue with dignity, the practice of your noble profession.’’ On his part, Senator (Prof.) Robert Ajayi Boroffice noted that for about three decades Yemisi has continued to blaze the trail in the sector of architecture, architecture consultancy and property management in Nigeria. The Asiwaju of Akokoland said: ‘’Without mincing words, your contributions to innovations and the development of architecture in Nigeria singled you out as one of the great pillars of architecture in the country. ‘’I am very proud of your great achievements and I pray God will continue to grant you wisdom, excellent health and outstanding grace in your career Once again, accept my best regards and congratulations.’’ The minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio congratulated Arc Yemisi for her investiture into the institute. The former Governor of Akwa Ibom State said the news did not come as a surprise to him, because she deserved more. Also, the wife Wife of Akwa Ibom State Governor, Dr. Martha Udom Emmanuel urged her to offer your wealth of experience to the profession in this newfound capacity, I pray that you continue to wax stronger in the discharge of this higher responsibility. ‘’I heartily felicitate with you on this auspicious occasion of your investiture as a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Architects (FNIA). The bestowal at this time in your professional career for me is a profound statement on your service not just to the profession but humanity as a whole.’’ In his goodwill message, the Speaker of the Ninth Benue State Assembly, Rt. Hon. Engr. Titus Tyoapine Uba said the Assembly under his humble watch pledges its total commitment to her course and that of the Institute in seeing to the strict adherence of professional ethics and rules of engagement in providing affordable housing. ‘’Our dear wife and mother as the Nigerian Institute of Architects recognise and singled you out to bestow on you the revered title of fellow of the Institute among her notable achievements and feathers of success, this honour of investiture into the College of Fellows of the Institute is just an enviable attestation to your manifold contributions to the Industry and your unquenchable thirst tor excellence, creativity and professionalism. ‘’The Assembly under my humble watch pledges its total commitment to your course and that of the Institute in seeing to the strict adherence of professional ethics and rules of engagement in providing affordable housing,’’ he said. The president, Tiv Area Traditional Council & Chairman, Benue State Council of Traditional Rulers, Professor Ortese Ayatse said her elevation to the professional climax of Fellowship has come as a recognition of hard work, commitment to duty, professional excellence, diligence and demonstration of leadership and mentorship in the profession. ‘’I write on behalf of the Benue State Council of Traditional Rulers, my family and myself to congratulate you on your meritorious elevation to the prestige Institute of Architects (FNIA) and the investiture on the 27 November, 2019. Fellow of the Nigerian. ‘’Your elevation to this professional climax of Fellowship has come as a recognition of hard work, commitment to duty, professional excellence, diligence and demonstration of leadership and mentorship in the profession. This elevation should indeed spur you to greater professional excellence and service to humanity.’’ 