The office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) said it is working to bridge the communication gap between the Nigerian government and the people. At a policy roundtable, Thursday in Lagos with the theme, “Bridging the Communication Gap in Governance,” organised by office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President, on Policy Development and Analysis, the stakeholders present lamented the present communication gap between government and the people, saying that it is uncoordinated, unstructured, and ineffective, with the youths at the receiving end of the bad connection. The Senior Special Assistant, SSA, to the President (on policy development and analysis), Ibrahim Hassan, acknowledging the strategy gap via which government communicate to people, he said his office would move to advise the government on the issues, where a communique of the outcome would be communicated to the public. The panel session had in attendance the Dean, School of Communication, Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. Rotimi Olatunji; Director, Programme Institute for National Transformation, Juliet Binitie; Economist and Public Finance Expert, Dr. Olalekan Obademi; and managing director, Toka Business Advisory Service Limited, Adebo Onabowale. The discussants advocated for effective channels of communication and collaboration for governance processes that is driven by policies which encapsulates policy analysis, conceptualisation, monetary and evaluation, implementation, accountability, transparency, review and feedback. They urged the government to first focus in doing one thing right rather than everything as they called for communicators at multilevel to create narratives that will showcase that leadership is about service for the people, while urging for citizen action, inclusiveness, responsiveness, technology-driven engagement, test and criticism among others. “The essence of governance is to meet the needs of the govern which would involve getting the govern involved in the process of governance, designing projects and programmes that meet their needs, with viable up-to-date information that are available through different media to the different publics. As such, good governance entails a credible two-way communication, with all the stakeholders and there must be a state of government capability,” Prof. Olatunji said. 