There was wild jubilation in Port Harcourt yesterday following the judgement of a Federal High Court, Abuja, which declared that Rivers State owns the disputed Soku oil wells/fields located in Akuku-Toru local government area of Rivers State. The Rivers State government, through its Attorney-General, had dragged the National Boundaries Commission (NBC) to Court, in Suit Number FHC/ABJ/CS/984/19, following the ceding of the Soku oil wells to Bayelsa State. Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja, has ordered the transfer of Soku oil field from Bayelsa State, to Rivers State. In his judgement, Ekwo, ordered the National Boundary Commission (NBC) to rectify the error in its 11th edition of Administrative Map. The Administrative Map in the National Boundary Commission designates San Bartholomew River as the boundary between the two states, instead of River Santa Barbara. The error was said to have surfaced in the 11th edition of Administrative Map produced by the NBC in 2002. The NBC had in its letter dated July 3, 2002 in response to Rivers State government’s protest admitted its mistake and promised to rectify it in the 12th edition of the administrative map. Failure of the NBC to rectify the mistake as promised made the Rivers State government to file a suit against the Attorney-General of Bayelsa State and the Attorney-General of the Federation before the Supreme Court in 2009. The Supreme Court in 2012 ruled in favour of Rivers State and ordered the rectification of the error. By August 2019, when the mistake had yet to be corrected, Rivers State government instituted a suit before the Federal High Court in Abuja solely against the NBC, seeking an order of mandamus compelling it to correct its error. Justice Ekwo on his judgement yesterday ordered the commission to immediately produce the 12th edition of the Administrative Map restoring River Santa Barbara as the inter-state boundary between Rivers and Bayelsa states, as it was in 1996 when Bayelsa State was carved from Rivers State. He added that the commission was duty-bound to obey the July 10, 2012 judgment of the Supreme Court which had affirmed River Santa Barbara as the boundary between the states, by immediately correcting its self-admitted error of designating River San Bartholomew as the boundary. He also ordered that the judgment be served on the relevant statutory bodies, especially, the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission and the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation for them to immediate recompute the amount of oil revenue accruable to it with the transfer of the Soku oil field to it.