The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has announced compensation for the victims of 2015 crane crash in Makkah, Saudi Arabia. Some Nigerians who were injured and families, who lost their members in the accident, are among the beneficiaries. Nigeria’s Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Justice Muhammad Isa Dodo, revealed this at a meeting with the officials of the Nation
al Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) in Jeddah before the signing of the 2020 Hajj Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the two countries. Head of public affairs of NAHCON, Fatima Sanda Usara, in a statement she issued in Abuja, yesterday, said that the compensation for five Nigerians, who were among the deceased and two others, who were seriously injured were released to the Nigerian Embassy in Riyadh. The statement was, however, silent on the sixth victim. Usara added that NAHCON had forwarded same for handing over to the families of the victims. She stated that the commission would soon coordinate the payment of the compensation in accordance with provisions of the law, stressing the minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Zubairu Dada, at a meeting with the Saudi minister of Hajj and Umrah, Dr. Muhammad Bn Saleh Benten, thanked the Kingdom for the action. LEADERSHIP recalls that on September 11, 2015, a crawler crane collapsed during a thunderstorm at the Kaaba Grand Mosque in Makkah, claimed many lives and injured several pilgrims.
Nigeria lost six pilgrims from Gombe, Kaduna and Katsina States in the crash while three others sustained serious injuries. King Salman of Saudi Arabia had pledged to pay compensation to the victims of the crash. In line with the directives of President Muhammadu Buhari, NAHCON and Nigerian Mission in Saudi Arabia had regularly followed up on the pledge of the King, which had been redeemed. Meanwhile, Nigeria has retained 95, 000 slots for pilgrims in 2020 Hajj pilgrimage. This formed part of the MoU signed by Dada (minister) on behalf of Nigeria and Benten for Saudi Arabia. Prior to the signing ceremony, Usara said that Ambassador Dada conveyed President Buhari’s gratitude to King Salman Bin AbdulAziz and the Saudi Arabian authorities for compensating the families of the five dead and six injured Nigerians in the 2015 crane crash in Makkah. He expressed President Buhari’s gratitude for the hospitality and support being enjoyed by Nigerian pilgrims in that country. The minister also conveyed the president’s request to Saudi Arabia to assist NAHCON in pilgrims’ airlift to Saudi Arabia. The Saudi minister (Benten), who led his country’s delegation to the event, said that he had been deputy minister of Hajj 20 years ago before becoming the present minister and was therefore a witness to the tremendous progress that hajj affairs has attained in Nigeria. Part of the agreements reached for 2020 hajj included a strong reminder on the etrack registration guideline. Benten emphasised that the Saudi Ministry of Hajj would not recognise any contractual agreement or payment done outside the e-track portal. This information was disclosed by vice minister of Hajj and Umrah, Dr. AbdulFatah Mishat, during a technical discussion session preparatory to the MoU signing ceremony. He was supported at the meeting by the deputy minister of Hajj, Makkah and deputy minister of Ziyara Madina. Also part of the disclosures was that pilgrims could pay an optional 100 Saudi Riyals or more as insurance cover for any accident, loss of property and other risks they may face while on hajj. This does not include medical care as the Kingdom grants free healthcare to every pilgrim while in the holy land. On visa fees, the delegation declared that the amount charged is 300 Riyals for all types of visas. However, the validity of the Umrah and visit (tourism) visas do not extend to hajj period. The issuance of such visas ends shortly before the onset of hajj season.