Apex aviation regulatory agency, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has disclosed the reason Bayelsa Airport has not been certified, attributing it to absence of adequate perimeter fencing at the airport. Bayelsa Airport despite its inauguration about six months ago is yet to commence full commercial operations. Acting director-general, NCAA, Capt Abdullahi Sidi, in an interview with aviation correspondents at his office in Lagos yesterday, said that absence of adequate perimeter fencing at the airport prevented the regulatory authority from issuing it certification. Sidi, however, assured that once the perimeter fences were perfected, NCAA would not hesitate to issue it certificates for commencement of operations, stressing that the government would not compromise security. He said “Somebody called me on the issue of Bayelsa Airport, then, after I did my own investigation, perimeter fencing is number one requirement for any airport, which is safety. Someone said the government has done about 60 per cent of the perimeter fencing and said the other side of the airport is creek, but I said that is not acceptable to aviation industry. “That perimeter fencing is the only thing remaining for Bayelsa Airport. There is no politics about it. That is the requirement. And anything security is taken seriously. It is a security issue. If we need to close an airport because of security issue, we will until they comply.” Sidi also lauded the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) for providing quality security systems at the nation’s airports particularly the international aerodromes. He, said that despite some of the teething challenges at the airports, the major aerodromes; Lagos and Abuja have continued to receive high ratings in the area of security in international community. Sidi who is also the director of Operations and Training, NCAA explained that Lagos and Abuja airports have consistently scored over 90 per cent in international security audits, stressing that the government was focusing on security and safety at the nation’s airports. For instance, he explained that the passenger sides of the airports are equipped with security gadgets like the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras, which made it extremely difficult for intruders to penetrate restricted areas of the airports without detection, recalling that as far back as December 2009 during the underpants bomber, Abdumutallab, the security gadgets installed in strategic areas were able to track him down. According to him, without the high security networks in Nigerian airports, the sole American airline, Delta operating into the country would have ceased operations, stressing that the Department of Transport (DoT), United States personnel, audit the Lagos airport almost every three months because of its interest. 