Stakeholders in the transport sectors are seeking for a better connectivity in the transportation systems across the country in order to support and promote seamless transport for a better economy A representative of the Executive Secretary, Nigeria Shippers’ Council, Mr. Nanle Nanbol in his paper titled “Inland container deport and the hinterland connectivity : Shippers council experience, called for all hands to be on deck in the quest for a better connectivity in the transportation systems across  board. Nanbol acknowledged that the functionality of all transportation modes in the country land, rail, sea, air was what the country needed under the present economic realities to boost the economy going forward. Comparing Nigeria with India, which he said has over one thousand dry ports against six approved locations for the Inland Container Depots in the country. The Assistant Director noted that more work still needed to be done to open up the system to accommodate all and sundry and called on all stakeholders including the federal government to sustain the ongoing resuscitation of the Nigeria Railway Corporation saying that the movement of heavy cargo from the coastal areas to the hinterland was dependent largely on the effectiveness of the rail transport system. He acknowledged the Nigeria Shippers’ Council positive performance within its power to promote intermodalism noting the advantages of inland dry ports which includes:  Free flow of traffic at the sea ports, provision of quick and safe access to port facilities to and from inland transport networks, decongest the sea ports by increasing storage facilities, with shipping services brought to the door steps of shippers/consumers across the nation and most importantly generation of employment opportunities for the populace. Nanle pointed out that hinterland connectivity required synergy through proper cooperation even as he admitted that transport connectivity on one hand requires highways, railways, coastal and inland waterways, pipeline, Maritime, Air Transport, Logistics Centers and inland dry ports ultimately. On her part, Mrs. Moronke Thomas, Head Planning, Research and Data Management Services, Who represented the DG, Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside in her good will message applauded the organizers of the conference, adding that the growth and development of the transport system was the upper most thing on the mind of NIMASA under its present leadership. Thomas alluded to the fact that the agency since the assumption of office by Dr. Peterside has continued to witness quantum leap in every facet of its operation saying that the reduction if not complete elimination of maritime crimes was as a result of heavy investment on security and collective efforts of all and sundry which she said was instrumental to having a more safe and secure sea channels. In his opening speech, the coordinator of face of Nigeria transport and logistics conference, Mr Cosmas Okereafor, said the program was meant to encourage those driving the current transformation in the transport sector in order to reposition it through infrastructural upgrade and investment. Okereafor said the railway corporation speaks volume of the unprecedented developments in the transport sector adding the transport sector required those that will take the sector to the height stakeholders were clamoring for.