As the traffic crisis in the Apapa-Tin Ports’ axis in Lagos persists, the House of Representatives has hinted that Nigeria loses N600 billion monthly to the gridlock and congestion in the two critical facilities. The lawmakers attributed the endless traffic jam to infrastructural decay at the ports. They therefore called the Executive arm of government to reconstruct without further delay the ports’ access roads, which they described as being in a “sorry state.” The House specifically charged the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and other relevant ministries and agencies of the federal government to commence the repairs of the dilapidated infrastructure. These resolutions followed the adoption of a motion moved by Hon. Mzondu Benjamin Bem and five others on the state of the ports and the roads leading to in and out of them. In his lead debate, Bem said that the two ports were key to the Nigerian economy and pleaded with the executive not to allow them to collapse. He recalled that the Apapa and Tin Can Island Ports were concessioned to private operators under the federal government’s Port Reforms and Modernisation Policy for efficiency and cost reduction through the Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) in 2006. The lawmaker said that the lease/concession agreements were executed in 2006 wherein terminal operations were transferred to private operators with specific obligations to develop, operate and market the concession in accordance with approved “Business Development Plans (BDP)”. He recalled that the government through the NPA retained the obligations of providing port access roads, dredging, water front security, pilotage, access to utilities, repair of quay wall and apron area. Bem said: “The House is aware that Nigeria losses about N600 billion monthly according to All African Publication of 21st December, 2018, as a direct result of poor state of port access roads at the Apapa and Tin Can Island Ports and despite the plethora of interventions by the government on the issue of traffic gridlock in Apapa and Tin can port, the unpalatable development has continued unabated with calamitous economic effect on the country. “We are also aware that all private terminal operators in the ports have met and exceeded covenanted obligations as regards investments in infrastructure, plants, equipment and  payments of lease/throughput fees consistently over the years except for one or two affected by change in monetary and fiscal policies of government,” he said. Bem stated that on Friday, 29th November, 2019, when the House Committee on Privatisation and Commercialisation on oversight visited some parts of Tin Can Island like the RORO Terminal container handler, it found some damaged parts of the transition slabs (cable duct) as a consequence of the sand erosion from underneath the apron’s deck due to the collapse of the quay wall which is the responsibility of federal government through the NPA to fix the affected parts. In adopting the motion, the House directed the NPA to immediately repair the quay wall and apron at Tin Can Island Port (RORO terminals) under the concession agreement. It mandated the House Committee on Privatisation and Commercialisation to immediately convene a stakeholders’ consultative meeting to find lasting solutions to the gridlock and congestion on the ports’ access roads.