Bayelsa state government has faulted the claim of Rivers state government to the ownership of the Oluasiri Oil fields/Oil wells, saying it is confident of its ownership of the disputed oil wells. In a statement signed by its Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice, Andrew Seweniowor Arthur, Bayelsa state government expressed its willingness to fully participate in any joint delimitation and demarcation exercise in respect of the disputed boundary. It described the claim of the Rivers state government to the ownership of the Oluasiri Oil fields/Oil wells situated in the Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, an area referred to by the Rivers state government as Soku Oilfields/Oil wells as false noting that, the Rivers state government instituted an action against the National Boundary Commission (NBC) at the Federal High Court, Abuja to give effect to its false claim. There had been media reports that the Federal High Court, sitting at Abuja had delivered a judgment awarding the ownership of the said Oluasiri Oilfields/Oil wells to Rivers State purportedly pursuant to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Suit No. CS/106/2009 between Attorney-General, Rivers State v. Attorney-General, Bayelsa State & Anor. The statement said it is worthy of note that the Supreme Court in Suit No. CS/106/2009 struck out the action on the ground that it was futile and premature to determine the boundaries of the two states insofar as the NBC had not delineated the boundary between Rivers State and Bayelsa State. ‘‘The Supreme Court never made a specific order directing the NBC to delineate the disputed boundaries. Albeit, it is part of the statutory function of the NBC to deal with, determine and intervene in any boundary dispute that may arise between any two States of the Federation with a view to settling such dispute. ‘‘The Supreme Court in the lead judgment delivered by Galadima JSC held as follows: ‘It is on account of the foregoing and because of the technical nature of the dispute and the claims of the parties this Court finds that the NBC as an authority vested with authorities and expertise know-how in dealing with this matter should have once and for all conducted an exhaustive exercise of delineating the disputed boundary. Hence the long-awaited 12th Edition of the Administrative Map when completed soonest would have been of tremendous assistance in settling this lingering dispute. “In the light of the observations, I have clearly expressed above I do not feel comfortable to grant the declarations sought until the NBC concludes its exercise of delineation of disputed boundary to finality. It will be futile and premature to determine the boundary of the two parties States in the present circumstances. “However, the appropriate order to be made in the prevailing circumstance is that of striking out the Plaintiff’s suit, and I so order accordingly. Each party to bear its costs.” The statement said this was the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court which can be verified by anyone. ‘‘It is worthy to note that after the decision of the Supreme Court Suit No. CS/106/2009, the NBC in exercise of its statutory functions commenced the efforts to exhaustively and finally resolve the boundary dispute between Rivers and Bayelsa State with the constitution of Joint Technical Committee on the Bayelsa/Rivers Interstate Boundary, the Deputy Governors of both States leading their respective State’s delegation,’’ the statement read in part.