The Minister, Ministry Of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, yesterday hosted heads of media organisations and other stakeholders with the view to enhancing quality reportage of the ministry’s programmes, interventions and activities. Farouq said yesterday during the media parley in Abuja, that the role and importance of the media as a viable tool for informing and educating people across groups and demographics especially in humanitarian and disaster situations cannot be over emphasized. She said it has become  so easy and cheap for anyone to spread falsehood across various media channels and platforms that go viral. “While I am aware that the road ahead has challenges, l am fully persuaded that with the help and support of the media and other stakeholders, we will overcome every challenge and deliver durable solutions on the mandate and the vision of the ministry. “The activities of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development will impact directly on the socio- economic well-being of millions of Nigerians and the development of the country. It is therefore imperative to effectively communicate the ministry’s mandate, vision, core values and activities to the heads of media outfits (by extension, the public) so that they understand clearly the policy direction and core values of the ministry and the huge impact it has on Nigerians. “The ministry has as fundamental parts of its mandate, the development of humanitarian policies and the effective coordination of national and international humanitarian interventions,” she stated. coordinating the administration and management of national emergencies, refugees, migrants, Internally Displaced  Persons and physically challenged persons, the formulation and implementation  of social policies for improved living standards for the elderly, the vulnerable and socially disadvantaged persons and poverty eradication. And promised to work assiduously to put in place programmes and interventions that will aid economic growth, address social needs like social protection and education in line with His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years and in keeping with the Sustainable Development Goals. While the Ministry will continue to support PWDs with various forms of assistive devices and economic empowerment materials. I am working toward the establishment of the National Commission for Persons with Disabilities to cater to their socio-economic, educational and health needs following the signing and assenting to the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act 2018, by Mr. President earlier this year.