A recent video allegedly released by Boko Haram insurgents has shown that Leah Sharibu is still alive. The video is first indication by terrorist group that she is still alive. The video also showed a veiled female whose face was blurred to ostensibly conceal her identity. It was, however, not clear if the lady was Leah Sharibu. In a one-minute and 29 seconds short video, posted by Ahmad Salkida on Twitter and sighted by our correspondent showed that one of the abductees, a principal lecturer at the College of Education Gashua, in Yobe State, spoke on behalf of the others, Bitrus Bwala, appealed to the federal government and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to secure their release. “We also say that the government has not done enough, that is why Leah Sharibu is still with this group,” Mr Bwala alleged in the video. It was reported that the college lecturer and 10 other persons were recently kidnapped by Boko Haram and all appeared in the video, shared by their abductors. The abductees said they are mostly Christians and from Yobe State. According to him, “I was on my way to my station on the 27 November, 2019 when I was abducted by the Tilafa army (Boko Haram. “I appeal to the federal government to come to our aid. “I, equally, appeal to the Christian Association of Nigeria to do whatever they could do within their reach to come and rescue us; because when we came here, we saw some workers here, especially workers of food organisation, but they were later executed.” Bwala alleged that they witnessed the recent killing of the humanitarian aid workers who were killed recently. “As you can see sitting behind me are fellow Christians who were abducted at various different points and brought to this place,” he said. Mr Bwala also said Leah Sharibu, one of the scores of schoolgirls kidnapped in Dapchi, Yobe State, was still with the abductors. While all the other girls were released after negotiations with the federal government, Miss Sharibu was not released allegedly for refusing to denounce her Christian faith. He said “We, therefore, appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to do whatever it takes to come to our rescue.” The new video, however, does not contain the watermark signature bearing the emblem of the terror group’s flag and does not contain the usual Islamic songs used by the terrorists.