Kaduna State Gubernatorial Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Honorable Isa Mohammed Ashiru has condemned the killings in Kajuru local government Area of the state. The guber hopeful in a statement issued and made available to newsmen in Kaduna on Monday said, “It is with an absolute shock that I received the news, broken by the Kaduna State Governor, of the murder of many people in some settlements in Kajuru Local Government Area of our dear Kaduna State. “This unfortunate incident is not only an unwanted addition to the list of the past similar ones but is also a clear indication that insecurity still remains a huge challenge in some parts of Kaduna State. “I, therefore, wish to express my heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, people of Kajuru Local Government Area as well as the Government and the entire people of Kaduna State over this unfortunate incident. It is my fervent prayer that Almighty God  who created those souls will expose the perpetrators of the heinous act”. Honourable Ashiru therefore urged the Kaduna State Government and all the relevant Security Agencies to ensure that the criminals who carried out the killings are fished out and brought to justice. “This will require a tremendous determination and demonstration of a sense of justice and fairness on the part of the authorities whose responsibility  is to not only deal appropriately with the perpetrators of such acts but to also forestall their recurrence. “Let me quickly remind my dear good people of Kaduna State of the need to embrace peace and eschew violence so that the diversity with which Almighty God has endowed us can be harnessed for the good of all of us. “Our State is big, bountiful and rich enough to accommodate all of us; all we need to do is to continuously remind ourselves of the fact that resorting to violence has never benefitted us as a people. In fact, such an act which results in the loss of human lives diminishes us as a people. “We should therefore endeavour to come together, regardless of political, religious or ethnic differences, to let the world know that we are committed to ridding our state of violence and at the same time willing to live as the true brothers and sisters that we have always been”. Hon.Ashiru reiterated his commitment to rescue the State from all forms of misrule. 