Mr Kayode Ajulo, a Human Rights Lawyer, has expressed optimism that the people of South East region will vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the Feb. 16 polls. Ajulo gave the assertion in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja. “There will be very big tsunami in the South east come Feb. 16.,’’ he said. He noted that since the commissioning of dedicated power station for Ariara market, it was like a veil was lifted off the eyes of the people of Aba in Abia. “Go into Ariara market now and sample their opinions on Buhari, you will find out that the noise on Facebook is different from the reality. “Imo, all the major parties, apart from the PDP, are working for Buhari to win, quote me. “APC, AA, ACCORD, APGA all of them are vehemently working for Buhari and Ebonyi is not an exception,’’ he said. Ajulo said that Gov. David Umeh of Ebonyi had been a friend of the president, adding that he personally welcomed Buhari to his state during the APC campaign and provided vehicles to convey the people. He said that even that the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu was not averse to Buhari doing well in Enugu as   long as he came back to the Senate. He said that these scenarios were pointers to the fact that the South East would vote massively for APC. He criticised a section of Afenifere, led by Pa Ayo Adebanjo for endorsing Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential candidate, stressing that their views did not represent that of the genuine faction of the group. He said that the absence of Pa Reuben Fasoranti, the Afenifere leader in the endorsement suggested it was a charade. “My worry is some Afenifere coming to endorse Atiku, some Afenifere also came out in Ibadan on Jan. 29 to endorse President Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. According to him, the question now is where is Pa Fasoranti? I know Afenifere has been polarised, but why is it that it is Adebanjo that will be running around to endorse a candidate for Afenifere. “I am a Yoruba man and I am a member of Afenifere, Pa Fasoranti is a known leader of Afenifere,’’ he said.(NAN)