Alhaji MaiMala Buni, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Candidate in Yobe, has described the late defection of the state PDP Chairman, Alhaji Inuwa Nguru, to the APC as an additional victory to the party. Buni said this on Friday while fielding questions from newsmen in Damaturu. He said Nguru joined the party for his personal conviction that President Muhammadu Buhari and APC are truly committed to national interest and remains the best option for Nigeria’s democracy. “The defection of Inuwa Nguru and his supporters is a major political fortune for the party who will work assiduously for the re-election of President Buhari and the victory of the party at all levels. “Alhaji Inuwa Nguru has practically and personally seen the achievements of the President Muhammad Buhari-led administration and the commitment towards a better life for Nigerians. “The former chairman was convinced beyond reasonable doubt that the re-election of President Buhari and APC was the best option for Nigeria and this informed his last minute decision to abandon PDP for APC. “In spite of all persuasions by the opposition party, the former chairman took an independent and honest decision in the interest of the nation and in accordance to the dictates of his conscience.’’ According to the governorship candidate, Yobe has enjoyed major intervention programmes including completion of the 330KVA power transmission line, Nguru-Gashua-Bayamari federal highway, education and healthcare delivery. “We are proud to say that at the state level, the APC administration has more than ever provided democracy dividends in road network, healthcare delivery, education, agriculture and economic empowerment to the citizenry. “It is on record that while most states could not pay salaries, the APC administration in the state had consistently paid salaries, pension and gratuities to retired civil servants making it a leading workers friendly state in the country,” he said. Buni expressed optimism that Buhari and APC National Assembly candidates would record landslide victory in the Saturday elections.
“We are hopeful that the rescheduled election will be free, fair and peaceful as INEC has promised and assured Nigerians of their preparedness,” he said.