President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to launch a probe into the alleged wrongful spending of over $166 billion dollars claimed to have been spent under the last administration as investment to improve power supply and distribution in the country, saying his administration will investigate those involved in the spending and recover the alleged looted money. President Muhammadu Buhari, who made this known in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital during the Presidential Campaign stop, said though those involved in the spending claimed to have invested such huge amount in the power sector, but “where is the power?.” Buhari, who arrived at the colorful Pavilion venue of the rally amidst ovation from the massive crowd of party faithful and residents, said if re-elected into power,” we will follow them and get our money back.” He also stated that under his administration ongoing anti-corruption campaign have made those in position of accountability are made to account for monies in their care and “all those who looted are in jail. And the loot recovered are invested in Infrastructures, the treasury of the country are being chased, jailed and loot recovered,” He also said his administration will continue to focus on three main issues of security, economy and fight against corruption,”the people of the North East are the major witnesses of what we have done in the area of security. When we came on board, we met over 17 communities of the North East in the grip opf the insurgents known as Boko Haram but now, we have rescued the people and dislodged the insurgents. Only Nine communities are being freed by the Nigerian Military.” On the issue of food scarcity, President Buhari said his administration met a huge bill of food importation, but within a sound agricultural policy,” we have made a huge savings and contribution with increase rice cultivation. It also took away the issue of high unemployment”. Earlier in his speech, the former Bayelsa Governor and leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Timipre Sylva noted that the massive crowd turn out at the rally showed that the Party is stronger in the state ahead of the Presidential, National Assembly and State Assembly elections. Sylva said with the various programme initiated and extended to the State under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, including the Bailout funds, water. Agricultural projects, the people of the state are sure to deliver victory to the APC in 2019. According to Sylva,” you have assisted the State Civil servants with Bailout monies and their salaries paid. The State was unable to pay salaries before the bailout. You have also initiated and nearly complete the road leading to the country home of the former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. You have also completed the water projects in Otuoke and Ekeremor communities of the State under the Federal Minsitry of Agriculture.” “It is clear like crystal that the President is winning again. I know the people of the state are going to vote you again for the good works you have done. President Buhari is the winning train. For the state to grow, we need to support the re-election of President Buhari.” “Izon stands for truth like President Buhari stands for the truth. Ijaw people have no reason not to vote for Buhari. Even if we made the mistake the last time, we will ensure there is no longer a mistake,” Also speaking, the Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, pointed out that people of the state don’t want to be left out of the move to the next level with President Muhammadu Buhari re-election,” your election is already concluded. Our only request is the provision of a level playing ground for the people of the state to show you they love you.” Lokpobiri also sought the support of President Muhamadu Buhari to extend his anti-corruption search light to Bayelsa State over alleged high fraud allegedly being perpetuated under the administration of Governor Seriake Dickson,” despite the huge allocations of over N1.3trillion accrued to the state excluding Local Government allocations and loans, the state is the least developed in the country.”