Early results from yesterday’s presidential election threw up some interesting outcomes with President Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress winning in the polling unit of his main opponent, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party. Apart from winning his own polling unit by a landslide, the president also won in the polling unit of ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo who had publicly declared his support for Atiku. It was, however, learnt that Atiku won at the Presidential Villa polling unit, Abuja. Buhari easily won in his unit, Kofar Baru polling unit in Daura, Katsina State, scoring 553 votes to Atiku’s 3. The president and his wife Aisha arrived at the Kofar polling unit at about 8am and were the first to cast their votes. Speaking to journalists afterwards, President Buhari expressed happiness with the conduct of the exercise so far. He said, “So far, so good, Nigerians understand and are behaving themselves.’’ When asked if he would congratulate the winner if he lost the election, he said, “I will congratulate myself; I am going to be the winner.’’ His eldest sister, Hajiya Rekiya Adamu, 84, also  cast her ballot in Daura. However, the APC candidate for Katsina North senatorial district, incumbent Kaita Baba-Ahmad, lost the unit to the candidate of Accord Party, Lawal Nalado. Nalado scored 263 while Baba-Ahmad scored 248 votes. The candidate of the major opposition party, the PDP, Usman Mani, got only two votes. At Atiku’s home base, Ajiya polling unit 02 under Gwadabawa ward at Jimeta, President Buhari scored 86 votes to Atiku’s 179 out of the 365 votes cast at the unit. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that Atiku Abubakar and his wife, Titi, cast their ballots at exactly 10:06am. Abdulrashed Mohammed Sarah, the Assistant Presiding Officer  of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), announced the result. …Buhari Floors Atiku In Obasanjo’s Ward In Abeokuta Meanwhile, President Olusegun Obasanjo yesterday lost his polling unit to the presidential candidate of APC, President Buhari. This is despite his campaign against the president’s re-election bid. Obasanjo cast his vote at Ward 11, Unit 22 in Ita-Iyalode area of Totoro, Abeokuta North LGA. In the result counted by the INEC Presiding Officer at Ward 11, Unit 22, PDP scored a total of 18 votes, while APC scored 87 votes. Except for year 2015 when he campaigned for Buhari, former President Obasanjo has been a perennial election loser in his neighbourhood. He lost at his ward in 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011. …Tinubu, Ambode, Sam Nda-Isaiah Win Polling Units For PMB In Lagos, the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Lagos State governor Akinwunmi Ambode won their various polling units for President Muhammadu Buhari. In the poll results announced at Tinubu’s polling unit 047, Ward 3 located at Sunday Adigun, Alausa, in Ikeja, Lagos, APC polled 121 votes as against 53 polled by the PDP. In the Senatorial election, APC scored 134 votes to defeat PDP, which polled 46 votes. In the House Representatives election, APC got 124 votes while PDP scored 45 votes. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode also won his polling unit in Epe for the APC. The governor voted at his polling unit along with his wife at 10:01am at Ward A5, polling unit 033, Ogunmodede College in Ajaganabe Area, Papa Epe. After the count, APC polled 131 votes, while the PDP polled 116 votes in the presidential election. Meantime, Tinubu who voted at his polling unit 047 at Sunday Adigun, Alausa in Ikeja said the party would accept the outcome of a free and fair election. Tinubu said, “I will accept the result of the election if we lose; that is the people’s verdict. Any democrat that cannot accept the result of a free and fair contest is not worthy of the name of being called a democrat. He must be able to accept the result of a free and fair election.’’ He expressed optimism that the APC would win the election, saying , “Winning is my hope and determination for my party. We are winning because we have the support of the masses, Look back at our rally, that is an indication who has the populace. We are not talking about the elite, the rich, but the traders, artisans and the common man.” According to him, if the opposition rejects the outcome of the election, it shows they are not democrats, but desperate politicians. Tinubu also said the election had been successful so far and that this demonstrated the resilience of Nigerians, even as he commended INEC for doing a great job. Similarly, the APC won the polling unit (PU) of the chairman of LEADERSHIP Group Ltd, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah. At the Kofar Danjuma Mainadi  polling unit, Bisi Clinic, Limawa A ward, in Chanchaga LGA of Niger State, where Mr Nda-Isaiah voted, the APC scored  344 votes in the presidential result as against PDP’s 75 votes. In the senatorial result, APC garnered 296 votes as against PDP’s134, while in the House of Representatives, APC scored 247  and PDP 143. …Borno Gov Shettima, Deputy Deliver Units Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima also won his PU for President Buhari at his Alhaji Kukawa 023 polling unit in Lamisula ward of Maiduguri. President Buhari of the APC scored 190 votes while Atiku Abubakar of the PDP got 21 votes. For Borno Central Senatorial seat which Governor Shettima is contesting, his party, the APC scored 177 votes, while his opponent, Senator Mohammed Abba Aji, of the PDP scored 21 votes. For House of Representatives, APC’s candidate, AbdulKadir Rahis, scored 177 while PDP’s AbdulSalam Kachalla polled 30 votes. Also, the deputy governor of the state, Usman Mamman Durkwa, delivered his own polling unit at Bakin Kasuwa, Shaffa town in Hawul LGA to Buhari who polled 288 votes while Atiku Abubakar got only 2 votes. …Fayemi, Fayose Deliver Polling Units For Buhari, Atiku Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi  yesterday delivered his polling Unit, Ogilolo Unit 09, Isan Ekiti for the presidential candidate of the APC. In the result declared for the presidential election after the conclusion of voting at the unit, APC polled 182 votes against PDP’s 5. For the Senate, APC also scored 182 while PDP garnered 5 votes. In the House of Representatives election, APC polled 184 votes, PDP scored 4. At the polling unit of the former governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar emerged winner. The polling unit located at St. David Primary School, Afao Ekiti polling unit 001 in Irepodun/Ifelidun LGA,  the PDP polled 225 votes while APC got 82. …el-Rufai Wins Polling Unit For Buhari, APC Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, has delivered his polling unit to President Buhari. At Ungwuan Sarki polling unit 024 A, where governor  el-Rufai voted, Buhari scored 369 while Atiku got 44 votes. For the Kaduna central senatorial district polls at the polling unit, APC scored 31, while PDP got 73. PDP Wins Saraki’s Polling Unit The President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki delivered his polling unit for the PDP. At PU 005 (2 polling units) at Agbaji Quarters, Ajikobi ward where Saraki voted, Atiku Abubakar polled 219 votes while Muhammadu Buhari got 68 votes. Speaking to newsmen, Saraki, commended the massive turnout of voters in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital. He said in spite of  the frustration of  election postponement, Nigerians’  resolve  to come out indicated their readiness  to elect those who would manage  the affairs of the country. Saraki also urged INEC to ensure that the few hitches identified were the resolved before the end of voting processes. “Nigerians have shown that they want to participate and INEC must show that back to them by ensuring they deliver an efficient elections,’’ he said. In the Senate contest, APC scored 60, PDP 269. For House of Reps, APC scored 53, PDP 253. Atiku defeats Buhari at Peter Obi’s polling unit The PDP presidential candidate got 258 votes, while the APC polled only one vote at Obi’s Polling Unit 019 Umudimaka Square, in Agulu, Anaocha local government area of the state. We’re Satisfied With The Elections – INEC …Enhanced card reader excites Prof Yakubu INEC yesterday said it was satisfied with the conduct of the elections from the reports it received from the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. Giving an update on the ongoing polls, INEC national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr Festus Okoye, said even though there were few reports about disruptions of the process and burning of some materials, the Commission was satisfied with the conduct of the polls. “INEC is satisfied with the ongoing process despite the challenges in some polling units,” Okoye said, warning that any official or adhoc staff that did not use the card reader for accreditation of voters in the yesterday’s elections would be prosecuted. “In the guidelines issued by INEC, the use of the Smart Card Readers is mandatory. Every staff or adhoc staff must make use of the card reader,” Okoye said. According to Okoye, it is negligent conduct for any official or adhoc official not to use the Smart Card Reader for the accreditation of voters. “Anyone that violates the use of the smart card reader is subject to prosecution,” Okoye. He admitted disruptions in the process in few areas of Lagos, Rivers and Anambra. “The residents electoral commissioners (RECs) will submit first hand report to the headquarters and we will take action immediately,” Okoye said of the disruptions. Okoye said in some local governments in Rivers State, like Akuku Toru and Bonny, voting for the Senatorial and the House of Representatives elections did not hold. He said a date would be fixed in consultation with the REC in the state. … CDD uncovers vote buying in Osun, Bayelsa, Enugu The Centre for Democracy Development (CDD) said it has uncovered vote buying incidence in the three states of Osun, Bayelsa and Enugu. Osun is one of the states in the South West the centre predicted there will be incidences of vote buying as reported on Saturday by our sister publication, LEADERSHIP Weekend. Releasing its preliminary report yesterday, CDD’s president, Idayat Hassan said it was unfortunate there were many areas where vote buying was observed. “At 12:32pm in Ijadu1 ward 3 PU 002 Ife East Modakeke, Osun East senatorial district, it was observed that some group of persons were putting their names down after voting so that money can be later given to them. At this point, money is not being instantly shared, but voters are putting down their names for the collection of their money.  The group of persons were identified,” the report said. “In Ward 2, unit 20, Brass LGA of Bayelsa state, vote buying pattern was unravelled. Party agents call voters and help them locate their names (they have a copy of the voter register as well as the one pasted on the wall), once their name is seen, they start talking to them. The voter submits phone number to highest bidder and then proceeds to get accredited to vote. They promise to contact voter later.” “At Eke Otu Primary School Amaechi, Enugu South LGA, Enugu East Senatorial District, some men were collecting money outside the RAC centre after they’ve voted,” the report added. On the issue of polls disruption and violence, the CDD analysis centre said the election recorded some political violence. “Two persons have been killed with three others injured in Amagu ward one in Ikwo Local Government Area of the Ebonyi State. The death occurred following a clash between supporters of two political parties in the state.” “In Rivers States, five people have so far been killed with four killed in Andoni LGA and another one in Asaru Toro LGA of Rivers State. Our observers reported killings also in Dekina, Kogi, Sapele Oba, where two people were allegedly killed. As we were filing this report, our observers were reporting ongoing thug invasion in Oru West LGA in Imo State.” “In parts of the country, there were disruptions of votes. For example, in Ajetachi PU 006, Anyangba ward, Dekina LGA of Kogi State, party agents arrived the PU with INEC election materials and asked observers to leave. They specifically asked voters who are not APC supporters to leave. Our observer reported gun violence. Also, in Bonny LGA, Rivers State, voting was disallowed by a political leader,” the report said. On the use of the Smart Card Readers, CDD said whereas the smart card readers (SCRs) remain one of the most vital aspects of the elections in Nigeria, “we have reports that many of the issues bedevilling the smart card readers from previous elections have persisted in some of the locations visited by our observers. There are quite a lot of reports that the SCRs are failing to authenticate a significant number of voters who have presented themselves for voting. It is yet unclear whether their PVCs were authenticated first, before their biometrics failed to be recognised. What is certain at this moment is that in a few places, supervising officer have directed that manual voting should be allowed. In Birnin Kudu LGA, Bamaina Ward, Voting Point 009, card reader reading did not function until midday so no accreditation or voting until this report was prepared. Enhanced Card Readers Excites INEC Chairman INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, yesterday expressed excitement at the performance of the Enhanced Smart Card Reader machines. Yakubu who was monitoring the elections at the INEC situation room at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, was excited watching influential Nigerians being accredited and  voting without further delay. The INEC chairman, who was at the situation room with some of his national commissioners gathering and filtering information and monitoring complaints from different platforms including the social media, said he was happy that the enhanced smart card readers were working well. Our correspondent captured the INEC chairman’s excitement when he saw former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan getting accredited and voting immediately. “This is interesting unlike what happened in 2015. It shows that our enhanced smart card readers are working well,” Yakubu said when a reporter was trying to block his view of the television at the situation room. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that in 2015 the card readers failed to authenticate the then president at the initial attempt. The guide at the situation room, Chima Durako, who took journalists round, said they were having a view of what was happening all over the country. The situation room has different departments: Security, Electoral Support Centre, Election Monitoring Group, ICT and Social Media where they receive live media reports and complains and were addressing them through different channels including #VoterAlert. Earlier, INEC had asked its officers all over the country where voting could not commence by 8am to extend the voting hours based on the time wasted. Giving an update on the polls, chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, INEC, Barr Festus Okoye said areas where voting commenced by 12 pm instead of 8am should extend the time by five hours. Okoye who said they observed100 percent poll opening by 12pm added that places that started late should extend their voting time to the number of hours that were wasted. He said states like Ondo, Imo, FCT, Kogi, Ondo, Taraba Yobe, Adamawa, Bayelsa and FCT had challenges and could not start the polls at 8am, adding that the time wasted will be added in those areas. He said some of the challenges that led to delays in opening the polls at 8am were security related and late arrival of the members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). On Smart Card Readers malfunctioning in some polling units, Okoye said they were replaced. “In other places where there are few challenges, our technical support staff are on ground and they are addressing the issues,” Okoye said, adding that the inability of voters to get to their polling units was because of security issues. “INEC chairman has contacted the head of the security agencies to address any security challenges. People are calling to lodge complaint and the one we can resolve, we resolve it. The complaints that need the state offices to address them are being referred to the states,” Okoye stated. On why some people are unable to trace their voting points, Okoye said the voter register was displayed but so many people could not check their names and where their polling units were located.  Polls Impressive, Security Adequate – IGP Adamu The  acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has said the polls conducted in the federal capital, Abuja, was impressive and peaceful as residents went about carrying out their  civic responsibility freely. The IGP, who went around to check on some polling units in Abuja, said, “I have gone round to some polling units to see the conduct of the election and what I have seen so far is impressive. The security is adequate,  the voters are casting their votes without any fear. The party agents also communicated with me to inform me that they are happy with the arrangements put in place so far and that they don’t have any challenge.” On the security arrangements all over the country, IGP Adamu said: “You know we have a situation room which we call Joint Operation Room where we monitor all the activities of all the Commissioners of Police and our personnel in the field all over the country, and before I left the office to monitor what is happening around Abuja, I communicated with personnel all over the country and they reported the conduct of election within their areas of responsibility and things are going on smoothly all over the country.” Reacting to the alleged attack on a police officer in Kogi State,  the IGP said: “An officer of the Nigeria Police was attacked in Kogi but not today. It happened some hours before the polling units were opened. So it has nothing to do with the conduct of this election and we are dealing with that matter.” Speaking on the bomb blast allegedly recorded in the early hours of Saturday in the North East,  the IGP said: “ what is happening in the North east has nothing to do with election. Insurgency is there and you know these people always look for opportunity to send a message when there is a major event like election or any big event to cause problem but I don’t think they have succeeded in causing damage or preventing electorates to vote either in Maiduguri, Yobe or any other part of the country. Among the polling units visited by the IGP are Garki Model Primary School, Life Camp, Minister’s Gate and Model Primary School, Maitama. Nigerians Have Exercised their Right To Choose Their Leaders – Osinbajo Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday said Nigerians have the right to determine their leaders in a free and fair election. Osinbajo said this after casting his vote at Polling Unit 033, Ward 4, Victory Garden City, Etiosa Local Government Council, Lagos. He said, “I think it is deeply satisfying. Of course there are home owners, there are those who are renting, there are staff and security but everybody has the right to vote. “The vote of the vice president is not in any way more important than the vote of the security man watching over us here; that is the beauty of democracy,” Osinbajo said. Abdulsalami Urges Politicians To Accept Defeat Former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar has urged both winners and losers of the elections to embrace peace. Accompanied by his wife, Fati Abubakar, Abdulsalami cast his vote at about 11am. He commended the peaceful nature and the turnout of voters at the polling, even as he expressed hope that such would be replicated all over the country. The former Nigerian military leader urged politicians to learn how to accept defeat in good faith after the election and embrace peace in the interest of the progress of the nation  and the people. Gowon Hails Nigerians, INEC Former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, yesterday commended Nigerians for coming out enmasse and being orderly during the elections. He also praised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for a smooth electoral process. Gowon, who stated this while observing the voting exercise at Polling Unit 027, Model Secondary School, Maitama, Abuja, noted that the election was peaceful in all the places he visited. He said, “In some places it has been smooth, In some places where the number is overwhelming, some persons are still trying to vote.” On the challenges he observed, the former head of state said, “There are some issues around the use of card reader, but otherwise so far so good. Nigerians are making me feel proud, at least, around FCT, I hope is so all over, he said. Rivers: INEC Suspends Election In 2 LGs INEC has announced the suspension of presidential and National Assembly elections in Bonny and Akuku-Toru local government areas of Rivers State. The Resident Electoral Commissioner, Obi Effanga, who disclosed this in a chat with newsmen in Port Harcourt yesterday, stated that the commission had to suspend elections in the two areas because of security concerns. “There had been heavy shootings in Abonnema, headquarters of Akuku-Toru as well as in Bonny. The casualty figures are yet to determined,” he said. APC Campaign Council Accuses PDP Of Plans To Attack Collation Centres The spokesperson of APC Presidential Campaign Council, Festus Keyamo, has alleged that the opposition PDP is planning overnight violence in various collation centres across the country. Mr Keyamo, who made the allegation in a statement Saturday evening said the PDP is planning to use political thugs for the purpose. He called on security agencies to be on the alert. He said, “The purpose is to disrupt the collation process of the elections nationwide in order to cause crises and make this election inconclusive. As we know, most of these collation centres are usually in schools or other places that are poorly protected “This is therefore a clarion call to all law enforcement agencies to mobilise extra armed security to protect all collation centres nationwide. We also appeal to Nigerians of goodwill and our supporters to provide standby electricity this night at these collation centres.”