Nigeria Army University, Biu, (NAUB) in Borno state, on Thursday matriculated a total number of 1016 undergraduates students and 1000 remedial students for the 2018/2019 academic session, being the first set of Students of the Institution. Speaking at the occasion, the Vice-Chancellor, Professor David Iliya Malgwi charged the students to be of good behaviour and avoid any act of indiscipline that could undermine the successful completion of their academic programmes in the University. “I urge you to deface from social vices such as cultism, examination malpractices, hooliganism, indecent dressing, drug abuse, thuggery, sexual abuse and wrong dissemination of information via social media that will contradict your academic stay in the university.” He said. He also enjoined them to be committed to their studies so that they could graduate with a degree that would enable them to be useful to their families, the nation and the world at large. Professor Malgwi further told the new students to consider themselves lucky for being offered admission into the Institution; noting that thousands of application were received but very few were considered, hence the need for them to make good use of the opportunity. The Vice-Chancellor disclosed that NAUB was established with the vision to become a solution center in technology, research and development for promotion of self-reliance, creativity and innovation in addressing the challenges of Nigeria Army, the military as well as the nation at large. He appreciated the support of Borno State Government and the Emir of Biu Alh. Umaru Mustapha for the donation of land and support for the establishment of the university and called for more. While administering the oath of office on the matriculants, the Registrar, Brig. Gen S. Ibrahim counselled the new students to be loyal to the constituted authorities in the University and should endeavour to abide by its norms. In his remarks, the Chief of Army Staff and Chairman, Governing Council of the university, Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusuf Brutai, represented by Maj. Gen. C. C. Okonkwo said the establishment of the university was borne out of his desire to have a professionally responsive Nigeria Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles. The chief of army staff then urged the newly matriculated students to be committed and dedicated in their desire for academic excellence towards bringing the vision of establishing the institution to reality. “I therefore charge you all to dedicate yourselves to the noble cause of bringing about this vision to realisation.” He then thank all those that contributed their time and resources in ensuring the smooth take off of the university.  