Nigeria’s insurance industry is set for major leap as 27 life insurance firms are to earn about N135 billion from group life insurance policy in the 2019 financial year. LEADERSHIP learnt that boost is propelled by the federal government’s policy intervention in the sector. Last year, the federal government through the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) announced a new rate for group life insurance policy, which was a 300 per cent increase to the rate being charged in the market then. Before then, most of the life insurance companies in the country, LEADERSHIP learnt, were struggling for survival as the rate they charged was not commensurate with the liabilities there-in. The trend led to the operators shortchanging themselves due to policy rate competition for the same businesses. However, with the intervention of NAICOM and its determination to enforce the new rate, life operators are heaving a sigh of relief, as fiscal 2019 is rated with better performance with increased yields. NAICOM had in January 2018 mandated life insurers to comply with group life rate put at six to eight per cent per mile, which was 300 per cent higher than the market rate. Since life insurers generated a sum of N44.5 billion premium income from group life business in their 2017 financial year, market analysts expect the Life arm of the i industry to rake in N135 billion premium income, which is a 300 percentage growth, from group life in their 2019 financial accounts when the rate must have fully taken effect. Market observers had expected a slight improvement in the premium income from this line of business in 2018 financial year but would not be as impactful as 2019 financial year, because some group life businesses have been renewed as at the time the enforcement of the policy was introduced last year, making it difficult for operators to generate as much as they should have done. Speaking on the development, the group managing director, Cornerstone Insurance Plc, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, stressed that the single positive regulatory intervention that has had the most positive impact on the industry, is appropriate pricing of group life insurance cover. According to him, “the industry is going to benefit a lot in terms of improved premium growth if the right premium is charged on cover. Price rate competition is a major challenge in insurance industry and that is why I applaud the enforcement of ratings on group life and third party and that, to a large extent, will increase the premium income of the industry in the current year.” With six per cent per mile rate charged on group life, he said that this represented 200 to 300 per cent increase on the average rate being charged in insurance market for the same level of exposure. To be able to double more than your price for the same level of exposure, he stressed, can only be very good for the margin of the industry. Explaining further, he said: “Mile is one thousand, so the mile is; for every 1,000 of exposure, you charge a price of N6. So, it’s 0.6 per cent, which is six per mile.” Before the intervention, he said, life insurance pricing nosedived to unsustainable rate of about 1.5 to two per mile, and that some life insurance firms were nearing distress, stating that it was a very timely intervention from the regulator to have insisted on the appropriate pricing. The chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mr, Tope Smart, said that the new rate would assist the industry in achieving the expected growth, adding that the new rate had empowered operators to charge between six and eight per cent per mile. Smart said: “This is 300 per cent higher than the normal market rate on group life. This is supposed to triple the premium income of life underwriters in 2019, thereby boosting total premium production. I believe operators can improve the profit margin of insurance industry if they charge the right rate on policies.” On his part, the managing director, LAKEG Insurance Consultancy, Mr. Mufutau Oyegunle, applauded NAICOM for the timely intervention on group life policy, noting that the industry would benefit a lot in terms of improved premium growth if operators stuck to the prescribed rates “I am optimistic that a higher premium production will be turned up in 2019 because the major issue which is rate-cutting has been handled by the regulator by fixing the rates to be charged,” he pointed out. LEADERSHIP recalls that NAICOM had earlier in the year, sent out a circular of new and approved rates on all compulsory insurances, of which group life is part of, to all underwriting companies in the country mandating them to adhere strictly to the approved rates or risk sanctions.