All is now set for the LEADERHSIP Annual Conference and Awards billed to hold today at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. The conference is an annual event put in place by LEADERSHIP Group Limited to celebrate those it acknowledges as having distinguished themselves in the public and private sectors in the previous year. The theme of this year’s conference is ‘Multiparty Democracy, Stability and Peaceful Elections: Connecting The Dots’. The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammad Musa Bello, Nigeria’s Ambassador to the United States (US), Justice Sylvanus Nsofor, statesman and seasoned administrator, Alhaji Ahmed Joda, chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, are among dignitaries, who have all confirmed that they will attend the Conference and Awards. Nigeria’s Ambassador to the United States (US), Justice Sylvanus Nsofor, will be chairman at the occasion while INEC chairman, Prof.Mahmood Yakubu, will deliver the keynote address. Alhaji Ahmed Joda, statesman and seasoned administrator, would be the special guest of honour. Confirming that the event will take place today, the board and management of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group Limited said that eminent personalities would grace the event. The Group Managing Director (GMD) of LEADERSHIP Group Ltd, Alhaji Abdul Gombe, in a statement, said it is expected that the personalities will add their perspectives on the theme of this year’s edition of the conference. Gombe disclosed that the Etsu Nupe and Chairman, Niger State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, will lead other royal fathers who shall include the Ooni of Ife, the Yoruba pre-eminent traditional leader, Mai Potiskum and the Deji of Akure, to the event According to him, the theme of this year’s conference is apt as it would provide participants (political and non-political actors) the opportunity to exchange ideas on the forthcoming poll which is a few days away as well as future elections. In December 2018, LEADERSHIP had in line with its annual tradition of celebrating individuals and organisations who have distinguished themselves in their various fields of endeavours and made outstanding contributions to Nigeria and the world in the course of the year, picked the nominees for its 2018 awards. Two eminent Nigerians were jointly nominated for the award of LEADERSHIP Persons of the Year.  They are the President and Chief Executive of Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote and Imam Abdullahi Abubakar. Clarifying the criteria employed by the newspaper’s Board of Editors in arriving at the choice of the duo, Gombe said that Dangote jointly won the LEADERSHIP Person of the Year 2018 award for his unprecedented philanthropic disposition in 2018 alone, which cut across almost all strata of human endeavours. The GMD said that Imam Abdullahi Abubakar jointly won the LEADERSHIP Person of the Year 2018 award “for saving no fewer than 300 Christians from armed men who stormed the sleepy community of Gindin Akwati in Barkin Ladi local government area of Plateau State, on a killing spree.” In the other categories of the LEADERSHIP Annual Awards, the quartet of Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, Taraba State governor, Darius Dickson Ishaku and Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, emerged joint LEADERSHIP Governors of the Year 2018. The duo of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, jointly clinched the award for Politician of the Year. The award for Banker of the Year was won by the managing director, Bank of Agriculture, Kabiru Mohammed Adamu. Fidelity Bank Plc won the Bank of the Year award, while the Government Agency of the Year went to the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) under the leadership of Prof. Ishaq Oloyede. The Public Servant of the Year award went to Mr. Thomas Etuh while the chairman of Azman Air Services, Alhaji Abdulmunaf Sarina, clinched the Business Person of the Year award. The founder of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company, Mr. Innocent Chukwuma, won the CEO of the Year award. Other award categories are: Product of the Year, which was won by Five Star Tomato Paste; Company of the Year, Max Air Limited; E-Commerce Company of the Year, Jumia; Telecom Company of the Year, 9Mobile; Brand of the Year, Airtel. The Outstanding Young Person of the Year 2018 award went to Samson Itodo; MC Tagwaye clinched the LEADERSHIP Artiste of the Year award even as the LEADERSHIP Sports Persons of the Year award went to the Super Falcons. 