Chairman, senate committee on petroleum (downstream), Senator Kabiru Marafa who was elected on the platform of the ruling APC, representing Zamfara Central, is a true statesman. He stood against the insecurity bedeviling the state and on the issue of the botched primaries, he stood by the truth until falsehood was defeated. The combined influence of a sitting governor of his state and chairman of his party could not stop the cause he championed. During the state’s primary elections, a faction backed by the sitting governor of the state and chairman, Nigerian Governors Forum, Abdul’Aziz Yari, wanted to follow a short cut to the Independent National Electoral Commission’s office with names of his loyalists as winners of the primary election, but for Marafa, an error would have been committed by the electoral body had that been allowed to happen. An error of accepting unpopular persons who are said to have emerged through a mimicry and parroting as the true representatives of the people of Zamfara. Earlier, there was a suit filed by some disgruntled elements in the Zamfara APC who said that they had emerged from a consensus and dubious arrangement adopted by the party in the state, and took their names to INEC for recognition. Marafa had challenged the judgment of a Zamfara State High Court, affirming that primaries were conducted by the Yari-led faction in the state instead of the National Secretariat and the INEC. This led to a prolonged judicial tussle which lasted until Friday last week, when the judgement came in favor of the senator. Like all well-meaning people of Zamfara state, Senator Marafa hailed the judgment of the court which sat in Abuja and was delivered by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu and which upheld the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) rejection of Zamfara All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates for its primary elections. The need to hail the judgment by the distinguished senator arose out of his desire to show Nigerians and the world that he meant well for Zamfara people when he chose to challenge the authenticity of the list the governor’s faction of the APC submitted to the electoral body. In fact, the distinguished senator needs to celebrate the court judgment in his favor in a grand way because this is a sign that he wields a lot of political clout both in his state and at national levels. The judgment has vindicated the senator and put his detractors to shame. He believes that the judgment has ended the political dynasty that brought Governor Abdul’Aziz Yari in as governor. There is no truer statement than this. The confused people of Zamfara who were divided over the tussle now know the personality with whom the truth lies. The governor, on his part, says he has forgiven APC over the unfair treatment it meted out to his faction of the party. But it is the people of Zamfara and INEC that should forgive him and not the other way round. Smarting under the pain of a huge blow, Yari led the Zamfara APC governorship candidate, Mukhtar Idris, to Aso Rock Villa to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari insisting that the party was not fair to the state chapter over the controversy that surrounded the governorship primary election. But this is crying over spilt milk. Why did INEC reject Yari faction? INEC had rejected the list of candidates submitted by a faction of the APC in the state led by the state governor, on the grounds that proper procedure was not followed and those duly responsible to conduct the primaries were not involved. The aggrieved went to court to challenge INEC but the truth, like a lifebuoy which cannot be hidden in the sea, came out on Friday. The court held that INEC acted within its purview by refusing to accept list of candidates for the general elections from a faction of the party in the state. The no nonsense INEC rejected the APC list submitted by the Yari faction. The electoral body’s action was intended to curb impunity among political parties and politicians and ensure that the rule of law prevails in our polity. In this case, all well-meaning Zamfara people should equally join Marafa to celebrate the victory of good over evil. Those who lost in the suit know that they were wrong. Therefore, in spite of what they described as conflicting statements from the commission’s national office and its Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), the court held that the decision to reject the list was within the powers vested in the commission by the constitution. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu in her judgement said that APC’s failure to conduct a valid primary within the stipulated time could not be blamed on INEC. And INEC’s action was intended to curb impunity among political parties and politicians, and ensure that the rule of law prevails, no matter the circumstances and personalities involved. A state high court sitting in Gusau had in October, issued an interim order restraining INEC from disqualifying the APC from fielding candidates for the 2019 elections.  – Ahmed writes from Gusau, Zamfara State.