As Nigerians go to the polls on Saturday to elect the President and members of the National Assembly, the federal government has ordered that all land and sea borders be  closed.  The minister of interior, Lt Col  Abdulrahman Dambazau rtd in a statement personally signed by the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service ( NIS), Muhammad Babandede gave the directive Thursday, in Abuja.  The minister directed that all borders be  effectively closed from  12.noon Friday February 15, to 12.00 noon of Sunday February 17, 2019 .  The statement reads in part, “further to the Presidential Election taking place on the 16th February, 2019, the Honourable Minister of Interior has directed the closure of all Nigeria Land Borders with effect from 12.00 noon of Friday 15th February to 12.00 noon of Sunday 17th February, 2019.  It specified that the move is to restrict movements across the borders during the election days, urging the public  to take note and ensure compliance.  LEADERSHIP reports that with just 48 hours to the election, residents of Abuja have besieged markets to buy foodstuff with prices of food items sky-rocketing, even as the security agencies  have urged voters to be vigilant in crowded environments  Clerics have on their part,  appealed to Nigerians to disappoint all prophets of doom by conducting a peaceful election just as the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, the Police and the Army have expressed their preparedness for the polls  NSCDC Deploys 60,000 Officers, warns politicians  Meanwhile, the Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abdullahi Gana Muhammad has ordered the deployment of 60,000 thousand men and officers and IED’s  detecting dogs to effectively man polling units natio wide.  The NSCDC boss through the Corps spokesman, Emmanuel Okeh declared that any politician or group of politicians who instigate or provoke violence during the elections with a view to making the country insecure, should be ready to face the law in return.  He said that they in collaboration with sister  security agencies, including the Police and the military were committed to ensuring that the elections were violence-free and that lives and property of Nigerians were not threatened.  His words: “Regarding the question of security before, during and post elections, I want to say the Armed Civil Defence Corps, the Police and other security organisations have made adequate arrangements for security during the general and local elections in a few days and a few weeks coming.  “I do not envisage any issues because this is just an election and it will come and go; though we know there are also elements within the political class that will not want a normal election process to come and be put behind us.  “I will appeal to politicians and their followers and supporters to keep the peace; maintain the peace and ensure a violence-free election. I will appeal to law-abiding Nigerians to come out en-masse, vote for candidates of their choice without fear of intimidation, without fear for their safety. It is their right to vote.   ****urges vigilance in crowded Area,  The Civil Defence boss again urged eligible voters to be vigilant in crowded environments before, during and after the conduct of Saturday’s elections.  The Corps boss also called on the electorate to abide by all stipulated guidelines emplaced to ensure peaceful conduct.  Promising to provide adequate security for voters, Gana Abdullahi charged that all forms of trading should be discouraged at the scene of voting.  The statement said: “The general elections are scheduled to commence on on Saturday 16 . accordingly, we wish to advise all registered voters to go out and exercise their civic responsibility as security is guaranteed. It is imperative to remind all eligible voters to be law-abiding and security conscious while exercising their civic right