Barely one week to the Presidential and National Assembly election across the federation, kinsmen of the Minister for Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu numbering over 2000 yesterday dumped the All Progressives Congress, APC to the Peoples Democratic Party PDP in Uburu, Ohaozara local govenment area of Ebonyi state. Prominent among the defectors include Chief Okorie Onu, the brother to the Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu who hails from the same Uburu community with the State Governor, Chief David Umahi. The event which took place at the ultramodern Special Science School field Uburu in Ohaozara local government council of the state marked the end of campaign rallies of the Divine Mandate Campaign Organization of the PDP. Chief Onu who led other defectors explained that they had to join Umahi, their immediate kinsman who is contesting for the governorship of the state to ensure that he continues the development of the state and Uburu, adding that decision followed the endorsement of the governor by other two political blocs in the state. Onu explained that Umahi cannot stay in office as governor for more than four years as against the APC governorship candidate, Senator Sonni Ogbuorji who could likely seek for another tenure (8 years), which could truncate the existing political arrangement of power rotation among the power blocs in the state. He noted that supporting the APC governorship candidate would mean, slowing down the tremendous infrastructural development in Uburu being executed by the governor, adding that the community has never had it so good. In his address, the younger brother to the former Minister of Health, Professor Onyebuchi Chukwu, who lost to Umahi in 2015, Chief Austin Chukwu of the Labour Party (LP), governorship aspirant of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Dr Austin Nweze were among other chieftains that defected to the PDP at the event. Governor Umahi who was visibly elated by the mammoth crowd that graced the occasion urged people of the state to ensure that they arrive the polling booths on time, cast their votes and remain vigilant, noted that they should vote for all PDP candidates. Umahi cautioned them to be mindful of the antics of their opponents to provoke them to violent reactions. Nonetheless, National President of Akubaraoha Youth Assembly, Chief Mark Onu warned that all those involved in the elections should conduct the exercise in a manner that would ensure free and fair elections as the youths would not close their eyes to any form of rigging.