Reprieve yesterday came for the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the Court of Appeal sitting in Port Harcourt, cleared it for the forthcoming national and state elections. The appellate court granted a stay of execution order on the judgement of the Federal High Court, which directed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to delist all APC candidates from participating in the 2019 general elections. The lower court headed by Justice Kolawole Omotosho, had while delivering judgement on a suit brought by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) disqualified all APC candidates from being in the ballot for the general elections. But, ruling on a motion for stay of execution brought before it by the APC governorship candidate, Tonye Cole, and other candidates, the Appeal Court yesterday ordered INEC to relist their names on the ballot. Justice Ali Gumel, who presided, said that it would amount to injustice to the people of Rivers State if the court refused to grant the stay of execution order. The court had earlier fixed yesterday for the continuation of hearing on other three motions brought by the APC challenging the two judgements of the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt. Meanwhile, the Tonye Cole Campaign Organisation (TCCO) has applauded the ruling. TCCO, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday by its spokesman, Ogbonna Nwuke, said that the lower court judgement had stood between the APC and its right to participate in the elections. The statement reads in part: “We have received with profound satisfaction the news of the landmark decision reached by the Court of Appeal presided over by his lordship, Justice Ali Gumel. “The court in its wisdom stayed the execution of the judgment of the Federal High Court which had stood between the APC and its right to participate in the forthcoming general elections in Rivers State. “Recall that Governor Nyesom Wike and the PDP had dragged the governorship candidate of the APC, Pastor Tonye Cole and other candidates of the party to the Federal High Court. “In what was obviously an attempt to deny the Rivers people of their right to choose in an election year, the PDP and its leadership in the most bizarre manner moved to foreclose the participation of the APC in the electoral process. “We are therefore elated by the ruling of the Court of Appeal which has responsibly removed all legal encumbrances that were hindering the progress of the APC in Rivers State “The decision of the Court of Appeal has proved beyond reasonable doubt that justice can only be delayed, but not denied. It has similarly justified the legal axiom which says that those who come to equity must do so with clean hands. “We wish to place on record that the candidate of the APC, Pastor Tonye Cole, who invested so much hope in the judiciary, does not consider the pronouncement of the Court of Appeal as a victory only for the APC. “Our position is that the landmark decision which opens the way for the APC to participate in the electoral process is an act of God, a victory both for democracy, the people and the judiciary,” TCCO said.