President Muhmmadu Buhari has declared that his administration will ensure that the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) gets justice despite the ruling of the Supreme Court, which struck out its appeal. He also declared that if reelected for a second term in office, his administration will be fair and just to all sections of the country and appealed to Nigerians to be patient with his government. Buhari, who spoke on Tuesday while the APC presidential campaign rally held at the Adokiye Amesiemeka Sports Complex, Igwurita-Ali, Port Harcourt, said he is saddened by the decision of the apex court. He said: “I am really saddened by the ruling of the Supreme Court which barred APC from fielding candidates in Rivers State. The courts have barred us from participating in the general election in Rivers State. “However, as we remain resolute in our effort to win the 2019 general elections, I assure you that justice will be done.” The President, who declared that his administration will remain steadfast and consistent in its fight against corruption, said he will accountable to God and Nigerians. Buhari said: Our objectives are very clear. We will remain steadfast and consistent in our fight against corruption. We will continue in our effort to revolutionalise our agricultural sector. “Nigeria will remain one united country and we will be fair and just to all sections of the country. We will remain accountable to God and you as we continue to serve you as President. “Let all Nigerians have the faith we will be fair to all and we will not allow any constituency in this country to be intimidated.” Speaking at the event, National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, commended members of the party in Rivers State for their fighting spirit despite efforts from certain quarters to demoralize them. Oshiomhole said the APC-led Federal Government is committed to justice, fairness, democracy and intrusion, pointing out that there is a difference between justice and judgement. He said: “I want to appreciate APC members and supporters in Rivers T for their fighting spirit. I am impressed that despite the efforts to demoralize you, you still mobilised to welcome President Muhammadu Buhari. I salute your fighting spirit. There is a difference between justice and judgement. We are committed to justice; we are committed to fairness; we are committed to democracy and we are committed to intrusion.” Speaking earlier, Director-General of Buhari Reelection Campaign Organization, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, accused Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wine of lobbying to be returned as governor for a second term. Amaechi said: “Whatever Nyesom Wike and the Peoples Democratic Party wants in Rivers State, we are equal to the task. Nyesom Wike is lobbying us to give him governor and in return, we will support us for President.” 