The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, insisted that it would go ahead with its presidential campaign mega rally in Abuja, whether or not it gets an approval from the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). The PDP further lambasted the FCTA for stopping the Atiku Abubakar Campaign Council from using the Old Parade Ground in Abuja for the event despite payment made to the state institution. The director, Media & Publicity of the Campaign Organisation, Kola Ologbondiyan, who displayed proof of payment to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for use of the venue, earlier billed for yesterday, described what he called ‘Buhari’s assault on Atiku campaign’, as the last kicks of a dying horse. He said: “It is part of the plot by the frustrated President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC to drag the PDP and the people’s candidate to their low level of frustration in order to enmesh the coming election into crisis so as to achieve their self-succession bid. “We invite the world to note that this latest assault against the people’s candidate is also borne out of direct ill-will and hatred against him by President Muhammadu Buhari as well as his handlers, who have sought all ways to drag him down, since they realised that Nigerians have reached a consensus on Atiku Abubakar, as the next president of our country. While warning against further attacks, the PDP Spokesperson said any assault on Atiku would attract very dire response from Nigerians. “We, therefore, need to restate that the more the Buhari Presidency attacks the people’s candidate, the more his support base among Nigerians expands. “However, any further attack on our campaign will therefore attract very dire response from Nigerians who look up to Atiku Abubakar to salvage our dear nation from the social, economic and political despondency, which President Buhari has plunged her into. “From reports reaching us, it is not also out of place for the Buhari Presidency and the APC to use this measure to test the will of Nigerians as precursor to their rigging plots. “We want to place on record, once again that any attempt to rig the February 16 election will be vehemently resisted by Nigerians, across board, who have reached a consensus to rescue their nation from the stranglehold of the Buhari Presidency. “In any case, let it be known to President Buhari and the APC that the PDP and the people’s candidate will definitely hold our presidential mega rally in Abuja irrespective of any further encumbrance they may attempt to foist. Nigeria belongs to all of us and nobody can stop us from exercising our constitutionally guaranteed right of holding our rally in the FCT or any other part of our country for that matter”, he added.