Ahead of tomorrow’s presidential and National Assembly polls, President Muhammadu Buhari has, for the umpteenth time, given assurance of his administration’s resolve to midwife free, fair and credible elections, the type that brought him to office in 2015. The president, who  stated this last night in his nation-wide broadcast to Nigerians, also assured foreign observers of adequate protection during the election. He reminded Nigerians that tomorrow’s elections beckon on all eligible voters to step forward to once again exercise their constitutional right to choose the leaders that will pilot the affairs of the nation for the next four years. He said, “I wish therefore to start by assuring all Nigerians that this government will do its very best to ensure that the 2019 elections take place in a secure and peaceful atmosphere. “It was indeed such free, fair and peaceful elections that made it possible for our government to emerge despite the fact that we were contesting against a long-standing incumbent party. “ And as your president and a fellow Nigerian, I ask that you come out and queue to fulfil this important obligation you have to yourselves and your fellow citizens – and to our common future. “Let me at this point reaffirm the commitment of the federal government to the conduct of free and fair elections in a safe and peaceful atmosphere. Just yesterday, I signed the Peace Accord alongside 72 other presidential candidates. “I want to assure all Nigerians, the diplomatic community and all foreign election observers of their safety and full protection. Any comments or threats of intimidation from any source do not represent the position of the federal government of Nigeria.” Noting that both the government and the citizenry have a critical role to play in maintaining enduring democratic traditions, Buhari urged Nigerians to take a personal interest in promoting and maintaining peace in their respective neighbourhoods during the elections. According to him, this is not a time to allow personal, religious, sectional or party interests to drive one to desperation. “ At this point, I want to make a special appeal to our youth: Do not allow yourselves to be used to cause violence and destruction. The people who want to incite you are those preparing the ground for discrediting the elections. Having lost the argument, they fear losing the elections,” the president said. Buhari went to speak about the mandate he has held since May 2015, saying that when Nigerians elected him in 2015, it was essentially because of his promise of change. “We committed ourselves to improving security across the country, putting the economy on a sound footing and tackling rampant corruption, which had in many ways become a serious drawback to national development. “Our government spent the last three years and nine months striving faithfully to keep this promise, in spite of very serious revenue shortages caused mainly by a sharp drop in international oil prices and an unexpected rise in the vandalisation of oil installations which, mercifully, have now been curtailed. “ We nevertheless pressed on in our quest to diversify the economy, create jobs, reduce commodity prices and generally improve the standard of living among our people,” he said. President Buhari lamented that the toll of insecurity and corruption on Nigeria’s collective livelihood was incalculable, but that his  administration frontal attack on these twin evils was gaining momentum and bringing about visible progress. He further averred that the recovery of the economy from recession was complete and that Nigeria is back on the path of steady growth. “The key to creating more jobs lies in accelerating this momentum of economic growth. Happily, we have succeeded in making the fundamental changes necessary for this acceleration, and we are now beginning to see the efforts bearing fruit. “Our ease of doing business policies and programmes are already impacting medium, small and micro industries, as well as manufacturing, mining and agriculture, among other key sectors. “Our commitment to critical infrastructure – that is, roads, rails, bridges, airports and seaports – will create more jobs and improve the efficiency and competitiveness of our industries,” he stated. “Many of these projects are at different stages of completion, and those who use them regularly will attest to the fact that even while construction is ongoing, they are beginning to see reduced travel times. This will ultimately translate to reduced costs and greater convenience, making transportation and business, in particular, much easier. “The economic recovery that we promised is well underway, as demonstrated by the recently released statistics. In 2018, the economy grew by 1.93%, with the Fourth Quarter growth being 2.38%, up from 1.81% in the Third Quarter,”  he added. He noted that the strong economic performance was driven by the non-oil sector, which grew at 2% as at full year, pointing out efforts by his government to support thousands of farmers across the country in order to increase domestic food production. According to him, these results further underscore his administration’s commitment to diversifying the economy away from the past dependence on oil. The president mentioned other indicators of steady economic recovery to include: reduction of monthly food import bill  from $664million in January 2015 to $160 million as at October 2018; fall of inflation from 18.72%  in January 2017 to 11.44% in December 2018 and growth in external reserves  from $23 billion in October 2016 to $43.12 billion by February 7, 2019. “ Now that the recession is well behind us, our next task is to redouble our efforts, accelerate the growth and use it to create even more jobs for our people. “The choice that now confronts us is whether we want to continue with real infrastructure development, which is the road to prosperity and jobs or return to the era of ‘stomach infrastructure,’”  he asked. In his last appeal to voters, he asked them, in making their choice this time, to ask themselves what other candidates would do differently to address the issues of agriculture, infrastructure, security, good governance and fight against corruption. “If they are only hoping to do what we are already doing successfully, we are clearly your preferred choice. “Think carefully and choose wisely. This time, it is a choice about consolidating on growth for jobs and prosperity. “February 16th is all about a choice. But it is more than a choice between APC and the opposition. It is a choice about you; it is a choice between going back or keeping the momentum of change. “The road to greater prosperity for Nigeria may be long, but what you can be assured of is a leadership that is not prepared to sacrifice the future well-being of Nigerians for our own personal or material needs. You can be assured of my commitment to remain focused on working to improve the lives of all Nigerians,” he said. …PDP Faults PMB Claims In Campaign Broadcast The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday described President Muhammadu Buhari’s speech as the last gasp of a drowning administration, noting that it was laced with fabrications and false performance claims characteristic of a leader who has been rejected by the people. PDP said that it was rather too late in the day for President Buhari to redeem himself with an academic speech, as Nigerians, “having moved ahead with the people’s candidate, Atiku Abubakar, are no longer ready to listen to his list of false promises and a  long claim of non-existent achievements.” The national publicity secretary of  PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement last night, said it was “ludicrous that at a time President Buhari should be remorseful and apologise for his failures that led to the biting economic hardship, hunger, job losses, killings and escalated bloodletting in our country under his watch, he chose to engage in a last minute attempt to sway Nigerians with falsehood. “Nigerians watched a President Buhari, who, having seen the handwriting on the wall, struggled with false economic growth figures and sought to blackmail the people with claims of non-existent food security and false assurances of safety in a nation heavily plagued by unemployment, loss of jobs, poverty as well as escalated insurgency and banditry. “Nigerians watched as President Buhari claimed a rise in foreign reserves but failed to accept responsibility for the huge rise in our nation’s debt and the fact that our nation has become the poverty capital of the world,” he said. The PDP counseled President Buhari to note that he has come to the end of the road and that Nigerians are no longer with him. “He should therefore end all his rigging plots and allow Nigerians to rebuild our nation under the leadership of Atiku Abubakar, whom they have reached a consensus to vote in as the next President of our country. …PMB Assures Bill Clinton Of Free, Fair Polls Similarly, President Muhammadu Buhari has assured former president of the United States, Bill Clinton, of credible general elections in Nigeria. The president, who took a telephone call from President Clinton on Wednesday night, described him as a friend of the country and commended him for his constant support for the peace, stability and progress of Nigeria under a democratic dispensation. President Buhari, in a statement by his special adviser on media, Femi Adesina, assured him of his commitment to free, fair and credible elections in the weeks ahead. President Clinton, who regretted his inability to visit the country to witness the signing of the final peace accord before the general elections, wished Nigeria well as her citizens go to the polls. FG Closes Borders, As Police Order Restriction Of Movement As Nigerians go to the polls tomorrow to elect the president and members of the National Assembly, the federal government has ordered that all land and sea borders be  closed. The minister of interior, Lt Col  Abdulrahman Dambazau (rtd), in a statement personally signed by the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service ( NIS), Muhammad Babandede, gave the directive yesterday in Abuja. The minister directed that all borders be  effectively closed from 12pm (noon) today to noon on Sunday, February 17, 2019 . It specified that the move is to restrict movements across the borders during the election days, urging the public  to take note and ensure compliance. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that with just 48 hours to the election, residents of Abuja have besieged markets to buy foodstuff with prices of food items sky-rocketing, even as the security agencies  have urged voters to be vigilant in crowded environments Meanwhile, the acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the restriction of vehicular movement from 6am – 6pm tomorrow due to the elections. Force spokesman, Frank Mba, said the ag. IGP noted that the restriction will assist the security agencies in effectively policing the electoral process, thereby preventing hoodlums and criminally-minded elements from hijacking and disrupting the electoral process. He also urged the citizens to troupe out en masse on the day of the election to exercise their franchise without any fear or apprehension as the Police and other security agencies had already put in place adequate security measures to ensure a safe, secure and conducive environment for a peaceful and credible election. While regretting the inconveniences the restriction will cause the citizens, the IGP however warned that “the Force will deal decisively with any individual(s) or group(s) that will want to test our common will in our resolve to ensure a peaceful election.” He therefore enjoined the citizens to steer clear of vote buying, vote selling, hate speech, circulating fake news, snatching of ballot boxes and other act(s) capable of truncating the people’s will, noting that the Force will not hesitate to bring to bear the full weight of the law on anyone who engages in any crime during this period.