The initial suspense and curiosity among Nigerians over the outcome of last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections began to give way last night as President Muhammadu Buhari took the lead in four of the country’s geo-political zones. Other winners on the Senate and House of Representatives elections also emerged. The zones won by Buhari are the Northwest, the Northeast, the Southwest and the North Central. Results from states and local government areas in the aforementioned zones showed that Buhari, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, will certainly secure another term of four years. INEC will officially announce the results after their submission by the state resident electoral commissioners (REC) at the National Collation Centre in Abuja. Results declared by the commission’s officials at the polling units, wards and local government areas put Buhari far ahead his main rival, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). At the time of filing this report last night, results available to LEADERSHIP, which key stakeholders confirmed showed that Buhari was fully in control of the Northwest. It was learnt that Buhari already had 20 states across the country in his kitty. Buhari also made impressive showing in the Southwest zone, where he won in most of the states in the region. Except Oyo State, where the coast was not very clear at the time of filing this report last night, Buhari took the lead in other states in the entire region Of the seven local governments released in Borno State, Buhari won in all of them. He also swept all the councils in his home state of Katsina where all the APC senatorial candidates also defeated their rivals. The situation was the same in Gombe State where the president defeated his main rival, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in seven of the nine local government results released by INEC. The collation in Gombe State was presided over by Prof. Kyari Mohammed, vice chancellor, Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola. In the presidential election, results from Gombe LGA showed that APC polled 86, 162 votes while the PDP scored 7,634 votes. In Nafada council, APC scored 15, 417 votes while PDP had 5, 792 votes. Also in Yamaltu-Deba LGA, APC got 56, 157 votes to defeat PDP which polled 13, 248 votes. In Dukku council, APC received 36, 010 votes against PDP’s 7,435 while in Kwami LGA, APC polled 36, 317 to beat PDP which had 6,614 votes. In Balanga LGA, APC had 29, 647 to PDP’s 14, 614 while in Kaltungo LGA, APC received 20, 944 as against PDP’s 20, 733. However, PDP defeated APC in Shongom and Billiri LGAs. In Shongom LGA, PDP scored 12, 871 votes against APC’s 9, 642 while in Billiri LGA, APC scored 15, 331 votes while PDP polled 21, 328 votes. Results for Funakaye and Akko LGAs are yet to be presented. Atiku however upset Buhari’s winning streak when he won the area councils in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The announcement of the results by Prof. Muhammed Liman, the collation officer for FCT, who is also the vice chancellor of Nasarawa State University, showed that PDP won in three area councils. The PDP performed extremely well in Gwagwalada and Kwali Area Councils of the FCT. Relatedly, while Buhari and the ruling APC won convincingly in North Central states of Kwara and Niger, the opposition PDP is set to take over Benue State. As at press time, former governor Gabriel Suswam of the PDP was declared the winner of the Zone A senatorial district seat just as PDP’s Abba Moro won the Zone C Senate seat currently occupied by Senator David Mark. The zone comprises the people of Idoma ethnic nationality while Zone A clinched by Suswam is dominated by the Tivs. However, Senator George Akume is struggling to hold on to his Zone B Senate seat with clear indications that he may lose it to Orke Jev of the PDP. The pattern of voting in the state showed that Buhari held sway in the Idoma-dominated areas while Atiku controlled the Tiv section.  APC Clinches More Senate, Reps’ Seats In Kwara, Osun There was a major upset in Kwara State, where Senator Bukola Saraki, was defeated by the APC candidate. Saraki who contested for the Kwara Central zone lost the election to Dr. Ibrahim Oloriegbe of the APC. The Senate President lost in three of the four local government areas which results were announced. They are Asa, Ilorin West, Ilorin East and Ilorin South. The PDP agent at the collation centre for the Kwara central senatorial district, Hon. Isiaka Magaji, rejected the result. Magaji refused to sign the result sheet at the collation centre situated inside INEC’s office, Ilorin. INEC also declared the candidate of the APC, Malam Mohammed Bio as the winner of the Baruten/Kaiama seat in the House of Representatives election. The INEC returning officer, Prof.  Lanre Olaitan, who announced the result on Sunday in Kaiama, headquarters of Kaiama local government area of Kwara State, said that the APC candidate polled 37, 914 votes to defeat the candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Abubakar Musa, who scored 14, 476. The PDP candidate, an immediate former chairman of the state branch of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) lost to an immediate former chairman of the Baruten local government area of Kwara. “That Mallam Mohammed Omar Bio having fulfilled the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of vote is declared the winner and hereby returned elected,’’ Olaitan of the Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education of the University of Ilorin, said. With the declaration, APC has officially won three of the six House of Representatives seats from Kwara. INEC also declared Mr. Ajibola Bashiru of the APC winner of the Osun Central Senatorial District. The commission’s returning officer, Prof. Titilayo Kuku, who announced the results of the National Assembly election, declared the APC candidate as the winner with 132,821 votes. Kuku also announced PDP’s Ganiyu Olaoluwa, as the first runner-up with total votes of 106,779. The returning officer thereafter returned Bashiru of the APC as the elected senator to represent the district in the Senate. He said: “I, Prof. Titilayo Kuku, hereby certify that I am the returning officer for Osun Central Senatorial District election held on February 23, 2019. “That Ajibola Bashiru of the APC, having satisfied the requirements of the law and scoring the highest votes, is hereby declared the winner and returned as the senator to represent Osun Central senatorial district,’’ the official said. Similarly, the INEC returning officer for Irepodun/Olorunda/Osogbo/Orolu federal constituency, Prof. Olukayode Ashaye, announced Mr. Olubukola Oyewo of the APC as the winner of the House of Representatives seat. Ashaye announced Oyewo as the winner of the election after scoring 66,933 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mr. Adebayo Adewale of the PDP, who scored 59,551 votes. He said: “I, Prof. Oluwakayode Ashaye,  hereby certify that I am the returning officer for the Irepodun/Olorunda/Osogbo/Orolu Federal Constituency election. “That Olubukola Oyewo of the APC received the highest votes and having satisfied the requirements and scoring the highest votes is hereby returned elected.”  Melaye Defeats Adeyemi in Kogi West Senator Dino Melaye bounced back to life last night as he won the Kogi West Senatorial District seat at the National Assembly. He defeated Senator Smart Adeyemi according to the result from INEC office in Lokoja. Of the seven councils in the district, Melaye won six local government areas. Melaye contested under the platform of the PDP while Senator Adeyemi contested under the umbrella of the APC.  Jubilation In Ekiti as APC Wins 3 Senatorial Seats Scores of APC members and supporters in some parts of Ekiti yesterday trooped out in large number to celebrate the outcome of Saturday’s elections. Former House of Representatives member and one-time Lagos State commissioner for Information, and APC senatorial candidate in Ekiti Central, Mr. Opeyemi Bamidele, won the senatorial seat in the state. His election was declared by the INEC presiding officer for the district, Prof. Jeremiah Omotola. The party also won additional House of Representatives seat through Sola Fatoba, who contested in Ekiti Central federal constituency (1). This brings the number of House of Representatives seats so far won by the APC to three, of the six available seats in the state. Serving Senator Biodun Olujimi of the PDP lost her re-election bid in Ekiti South Senatorial District to Prince Dayo Adeyeye of the APC. INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Laide Lawal, announced the result yesterday in Ikere. Adeyeye scored 77,621 votes to beat Olujimi, who is the minority leader in the Senate, she polled 53,741 votes. Similarly, the APC candidate Sen. Adetunmbi has been declared the winner of the Ekiti North Senatorial District poll. Adetunmbi polled 60,689 votes to defeat the incumbent Senator Duro Faseyi of the PDP who recorded 49,209 votes.  PDP Senatorial Candidate Leads In FCT The senatorial candidate of the PDP in FCT, Philip Aduda has won in three of the six Area Councils in Abuja. This was revealed in separate presentations of results by collation officers to the returning officer, Prof. Sani Saka in Abuja, yesterday. In Abaji Area Council, Aduda got 11,290 votes to beat his closest rival and APC candidate, Mr. Jisalo Zephania, who got 11,276 votes. In Kwali Area Council, the PDP candidate got 17,642 to beat the APC candidate who got 14,899 votes. Also, in Gwagwalada Area Council, Aduda got 29,567 to beat Zephaniah who got 22,318 votes. At the time of filing this report, results were still been expected from Abuja Municipal, Bwari and Kuje Area Councils.  Kalu Wins Abia North Senatorial Seat Meanwhile, Former Abia State governor, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu, has been declared the winner of Abia North Senatorial District. He polled 31,203 votes to defeat the incumbent Senator Ohuabunwa who got 20,801 votes and the candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance, Chief David Ogba, who scored 11,410 votes. The returning officer, Dr. Charles Anumodu, declared Kalu winner. However, Ohuabunwa in a statement by his campaign organisation has rejected the result. Senator Ohuabunwa in the statement signed by Mr Ukpai Ukairo said that there had not been a return on the Abia North senatorial election, pointing out that the true position was that results were still being collated. “It has come to our knowledge that INEC operatives in their haste to arrive at a pre-determined conclusion manipulated the electoral process to the shock of all well-meaning patriots who believe in democracy. “In this respect, it is tragic that INEC could conduct an election without the issuance of form EC40G, a form used to capture cancelled votes and places where there was no voting. “In the circumstances of the above, we demand that the resident electoral commissioner in Abia State should to direct the returning officer of the Abia North Senatorial election to make declaration in accordance with the dictates of Rule 17E(e) of the guidelines for the conduct of elections issued by INEC by cancelling the elections completely”, Ohuabunwa said.  Dogara Retains House Of Reps Seat In Bauchi The Speaker House of Representative, Yakubu Dogara of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has retained his seat as member representing Bogoro/Dass/ Tafawa-Balewa Federal Constituency in Bauchi. Announcing the results of the just concluded elections, INEC Returning Officer in the constituency, Prof Mohammed Abdulhamid, said in Zwall, the collation centre, yesterday, that Dogara polled 73,609 votes to defeat his closest opponent, Alhaji Dalhatu Kantana of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who scored 50,078 votes, and six other candidates. He commended the electorate for their orderly conduct, saying the exercise was transparent and hitch-free. With this victory, Dogara will be representing his constituency for the fourth consecutive time. He was elected for the first time in 2007 and has so far spent 12 years as member of the House. Before the results were announced, thousands of the citizens stayed glued to their television sets for updates on the conduct of the election and the results already collated and announced. Others held on to their radio sets listening to both local and foreign broadcasts on the Nigerian election, where President Muhammadu Buhari could have his mandate renewed or a new president emerged. The social media feasted on the situation as they published results from some polling units, wards and local government areas which were purportedly released by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the various levels. Still, others inundated media houses, including the LEADERSHIP, requesting for confirmation of the results being published in the social media and on online platforms of some national dailies.  Ignore Social Media Results, INEC Tells Nigerians Aware of the citizens’ apprehension and the possibility of accepting them as authentic, INEC appealed to the people to ignore the results and awaits its official announcements. INEC hinted that apart from Ekiti State, which had completed the collation exercise and announced the winners, the results of the remaining 36 states of the federation and the FCT were not ready. The commission said that it remains the only body empowered by law to announce the results of elections. On the conduct of the presidential and the National Assembly polls, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said that even though results from the polling units were in public domain, they were not official until the Commission makes pronouncements on them. Yakubu said: “Only INEC will declare results and winners,” in his response to a question from the LEADERSHIP at yesterday’s press briefing. He explained that even the results of Ekiti State was being transported to Abuja and advised Nigerians not to be apprehensive. “We are not just focused on conducting free and fair elections, but the announcement of the results must be a true reflection of what happened at the polling units,” Yakubu said. On the performance of commission’s officials, the INEC boss said that one of its personnel in Imo State was handed over to the security agencies for altering the results collated. He disclosed that the electoral umpire was conducting elections in a few wards in Imo, Lagos and Anambra States, adding that INEC did not cancel the FCT elections nor in any part of the country. According to him, “no election was cancel in the FCT or anywhere results have been declared. Only the court can make such their pronouncement. He debunked allegations that some Nigerians were stopped from voting in some parts of Lagos and Kano States, adding that no Nigerian citizen with legitimate voter card was not allowed to vote in the elections. Yakubu, who also said that there were no underage voting in the elections, stressing that, “we are not just out to conduct elections but to protect the sanctity of the elections.” The INEC chairman said that they had a few issues in Abia, Bayelsa, Benue, Plateau, Zamfara, Sokoto and Kuje in the FCT which were addressed. On security, Yakubu said that the commission was waiting for more reports from Owerri in Imo State, Okota in Lagos, Akwa Ibom and Dekina in Kogi State where INEC vehicles were burnt. He confirmed that INEC lost their staff, Ibisiki Amachree, to a stray bullet, adding that that the commission had lodged a complaint with the security agents. He assured Nigerians that the commission would not spare any officer found to be involved in any election malpractice. Yakubu promised that the officer in the Imo scandal would be investigated and if found guilty would be prosecuted. “One of our officers in Imo has been handed over to the security agency for allegedly altering election result. “We will not condone any act of sabotage from our officers in the election conduct,” Yakubu said. He said that during a sporadic shooting in Bonny, Rivers State, a stray bullet killed Amachere, a corps member while several others were injured. Yakubu described Amachree as a patriotic Nigerian who contributed to the success of the election. The INEC chairman promised to work with the relevant security agencies to ensure that the perpetrators of “this heinous act are brought to book. “We consider Amachree’s death as a great loss not only to her immediate family, but also to the INEC family and the nation,” He said.  PDP Insists On Results From Polling Units As the anxious wait for the results lingers, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said only the results announced at the polling units for its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, would be accepted by the party. The party warned that Nigerians would not accept any figures except those declared and collated at the polling units. PDP said it was already aware that the Muhammadu Buhari presidency was mounting pressure on INEC and dispatching officials to change the results in Rivers, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Kogi, Bauchi, Cross River, Borno, Yobe and Edo States among others “in a frenzy to allocate fictitious figures to the defeated President Buhari.” Itsnational publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that “pathetically, the presidency is also threatening the Southeast state governors to change the results and carve a 25 per cent for Mr. President, a scheme that has already failed. “In Bauchi State, we are aware of the plots to move thump-printed ballot papers and fabricated results from Bauchi to Dass local government area to upturn PDP’s victory in the results already delivered and announced at the polling units in the area. “This is why the electoral officials have been delaying moving the results for final collation and announcement. If this plot fails, the APC plans to void the results for Dass. “In spite of all these, our party assures Nigerians that the hope for a new government led by Atiku Abubakar is already manifest. “Our agents and indeed, Nigerians, already have the results as delivered at the polling units and are not ready to accept anything to the contrary. President Buhari and the APC) should therefore quietly come to terms with the fact that they have been defeated.  Declare Atiku Winner Now, PDP Tells INEC Consequently, the PDP charged INEC to immediately announce the results as delivered from the polling units and declare Atiku the winner of the presidential election. The party said its position was predicated on clear and verifiable results across the nation, showing that Atiku is in clear lead both in spread and total number of votes cast. Ologbondiyan, who issued a press statement, said that intelligence reaching the party showed that “INEC is delaying the announcement of results following directives by the Buhari presidency and the APC, which are bent on altering the figures from the polling centres and allocate fictitious figures to Buhari, particularly in northern states. “Curiously, INEC server is now shut down, results are no more being transmitted and the reason is to enable the APC to inflate figures from six designated states. “We call on the international observers and election monitors to insist on a transparent process of transmission of results and the monitoring thereof,” he said  Don’t Behave Like Spoiled Children, APC Cautions PDP In its response to the PDP allegations, the ruling APC chided the opposition party for asking INEC to declare Atiku as the winner of the presidential election. The party described the PDP statement as both “shameful and alarming” and tasked the electoral umpire to diligently perform the task that had been assigned to it. In a statement signed by the APC publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party further charged the PDP not to behave like “spoiled children” but rather, like the large party it claims to be. He said: “Our nation is trying to perfect its democracy, not to turn it into a mockery. Sadly, this objective is lost to the PDP. The PDP’s guiding principle is distilled to the following; because they want something, then they should get it. What they use to guide themselves actually blinds them instead. “Because they want the presidency so badly that they have engaged in all manner of misconduct and spared little cost to achieve their aim, they now believe that they are entitled to claim victory notwithstanding the vote and will of the people. But this is not the way of democracy. Democracy means the people choose for themselves not that the PDP chooses for them. “That may have been the way in the past when they engineered and kidnapped elections to achieve their desired end notwithstanding the true will of the people. Thankfully, those days are gone and gone forever. “Instead of the discordant and provocative statement it released, the PDP should be appealing for peace and for INEC to diligently and thoroughly perform the vital task assigned it. Curiously, the majority of violent incidents and reports of electoral malpractice emanate from states which the PDP controls. It appears the PDP just cannot break from their old ways, APC said.  CUPP Accuses APC Govs Of Inflating Figures For PMB Amidst the altercation between the APC and PDP, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has alleged that governors of the ruling party in the Northwest and some Northeast states were working to inflate the number of votes scored by Buhari in those regions in a bid to neutralise what they called a landslide lead of Atiku in the other four geo political zones. CUPP spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere, alleged that the governors had secured the collaboration of the Nigerian Army which has begun to give cover to APC chieftains and compromised electoral officers to hold back the results from the areas and to later attempt to smuggle in the inflated results. He said: “Also having confirmed from their situation room that the numbers do not add up and that President Buhari also failed to secure the constitutional 25 per cent of the votes cast in each of two thirds of the states of the federation, the president and his party are mounting pressure on the Enugu State governor and the state resident electoral commissioner including other Southeast states to alter some results so as to award at least 25 per cent of the votes to the president.  Collated Results Show I Will Win – Atiku Relatedly, Atiku has said that the results collated so far had shown that “I am winning the presidential election.” Atiku made the assertion yesterday morning in a statement signed by his campaign spokesperson, Phrank Shaibu. He said: “With strong shares of vote in South-South, Southeast as well as an increased share in the Southwest and North Central, we are very pleased with the progress the PDP has made. We look forward to sharing some exciting news in other parts of the country very soon, which will confound all the armchair pundits.” Atiku thanked Nigerians for turning out to vote for him in their millions and confirmed that the initial indications from the PDPs Simultaneous Vote Count showed that PDP’s victory was assured.  Police Arrest 128 Electoral Offences Following cases of security infractions in some parts of the country during last Saturday’s elections, the police said that they have arrested 128 suspects. Force spokesman, ACP Frank Mba, who did not give the names of the suspects, said that “they were arrested across the country for various electoral offences ranging from homicide-related crimes, vote trading, ballot-box snatching, impersonation, malicious damage, amongst others; while 38 assorted weapons and a cache of explosives were also recovered. “Consequently, the acting inspector-general of police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu has directed the Special Election Investigation Team (SEIT) to immediately commence discrete investigation of all security-related infractions during the election and ensure that all persons found culpable are brought to book in accordance with the law.”