The offer of presidential pardon to repentant Niger Delta agitators was officially made on 25 June 2009. With this, thousands of ex-militants who lay down their arms were registered and captured in the Presidential Amnesty Programme. The idea of an amnesty for armed agitators in the Niger Delta region was mooted by late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua as part of the effort by then federal government to end the growing tension and hostilities occasioned by vandalisation of oil and gas installations, hostage taking and other high level crimes that threatened business the environment in the region. The move was to also address the underlying causes of discontent in the region. This, of course, was in pursuant of section 175 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In the said section, the Nigerian government acknowledges that the challenges of the Niger Delta arose mainly from the inadequacies of previous attempts at meeting the yearnings and aspiration of the people of the oil rich region. From inception, it was perceived that the Presidential Amnesty was essentially a short term strategy aimed at taking militants out of the creeks to minimize the potential damage they could cause to the economy if their activities were allowed to escalate beyond the degree it was then. However, the last decade has shown that the programme is not only gradually being institutionalised but also becoming a hub where world class leaders and modern entrepreneurs are groomed. From the late Umar Yar’ Adua administration to the Goodluck Jonathan era,  and now President Muhammadu Buhari, the Presidential Amnesty Programme has passed through various phases, including demobilization, disarmament, rehabilitation, registration of ex-agitators, registration for higher education courses as well as assigning to vocational training centres and enrolment in formal education in institutions in Nigeria and abroad for different courses, with a focus on business development skills. In its first five years, the programme was still in the calibrating process, though there were successes recorded. Ex-agitators were not only taken away from the creeks but were also engaged in various skills acquisition programmes. Some were gainfully employed after their formal education. However, there were lot that needed to be done not only to accommodate thousands of ex-agitators captured in the programme during the post Amnesty registration but also to give the programme an interior value, such that reflects its core mandate. Buhari and the Amnesty Programme With the coming of the Buhari administration in 2015, a new coordinator, Brig. Gen. Paul Boroh (rtd) was appointed to run the affairs of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, though he was later relieved of the job after almost three years of service.n March 2018, Prof Charles Dokubo, who was a Director of Research and Studies at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs was appointed the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme by President Buhari to take up the responsibility at the Presidential Amnesty. Knowing what is required of him when given the baton to man the office many have described as one of the most demanding posts to man, considering its military-like nature, Prof Dokubo set the ball rolling first by carrying out major audit to scrutinise the original beneficiaries of the programme. He started a well thought out reform not only because President Buhari had appointed him but for his boiling passion and love for the Niger Delta and the country. The new Amnesty regime under Dokubo is set to carry out its duties diligently without caring whose ox is gored. With this, the office has made youths of the Niger Delta to be conscious of the core mandate and activities of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, making it clear to them that from now, ‘’it is going to be a different ball game’’. There are many other appointees from the Niger Delta working in the Buhari administration but Prof Dokubo has in the last ten months worked to distinguish himself from the crowd just like the biblical Daniel “who purposed in his heart not to defile himself with the king’s meat”. President Buhari had given the same instruction to other members of his government; the difference is that Dokubo being conscious of the president’s anti-corruption stance saw it as a responsibility and a rare opportunity to solve some challenges in the Niger Delta. Consequently, amidst increased reports of alleged sales of contracts by contractors engaged by the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof Dokubo recently frowned at contractors engaging in contracts racketeering, warning them to desist from such malpractice or be disengaged. In a statement, the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta further warned that there would be dire penalties for their actions if projects awarded to them were not implemented in line with the terms and agreement of the contracts. “It is illegal and criminal for a contractor to be awarded a job and then he goes behind to sell the contract to another individual or company. As part of the terms of agreement for contracts awarded by the Presidential Amnesty Office, a contract is not transferable. It should be satisfactorily implemented. “Henceforth, any company that engages in sale or contract racketeering after securing a job at the Presidential Amnesty Programme shall have the contract revoked. Contractors are advised to be guided accordingly and adhere strictly to contract terms,” Dokubo had warned in the statement. Dokubo exposure and experience in his human relations strategy has enabled him used his office as the mirror in which he sees the challenges of the people of the Niger Delta region and that of the country he serves, hence the new Amnesty regime has therefore designed a strategic innovation to ensure that jobs are secured for ex-agitators after undergoing training in their various fields. This is already yielding meaningful results as the office is already partnering with ministries, government department and agencies and private sectors. Worthy of note is the Job Placement Unit of PAP created by the Amnesty regime under Prof Dokubo. The whole idea, according Muphy Gangana, the Special Assistant (Media) is to synergise with government agencies, private and public sectors for employment of trained ex-agitators. Recently, the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) Job Placement Unit announced that it has secured employment for 40 ex-agitators following completion of their training programme, adding that more beneficiaries were also been profiled for employment. Ganagana also disclosed that, no fewer than 445 beneficiaries across the Niger Delta region are currently undergoing six months training in different skills under PAP. He said that the beneficiaries were undergoing training on fish farming, greenhouse farming, leather works, tailoring and fashion design, welding and fabrication, among others. The Amnesty media aide also disclosed that 60 delegates were undergoing training on oil and gas power system at Effurun, Delta while 200 others were being trained in welding and fabrication at Agadagba, Ondo State. The Amnesty Programme spokesman said 58 delegates were undergoing training on fish farming and 11 on fashion design and tailoring in Port Harcourt, Rivers. “While 19 delegates are undergoing training on greenhouse farming, 29 were being trained on tailoring and fashion design and 18 on leather works in Lagos State. “We still have over 11,000 beneficiaries to be trained out of 30,000. “So, we are trying to fast-track the training processes hence the need to construct more vocational training centres across the region. “The office is doing this to ensure that it gives quality training to our beneficiaries,” he said. In a bid to build human capacity to fill the gaps in lower and middle cadre the oil and gas sector, the oil and gas basic skill training centres was activated to commence training for Amnesty beneficiaries. This is line with global best practices as the Amnesty Office designed training a curriculum for the centres planned by a team of experts from the United Kingdom for the proper certification of trainees as approved by the National Board for Technical Education (NABTE). In a further bid to achieve the requisite industry training standards and the right certification, the Amnesty Office signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI) in Effurun, Delta State, to handle the core training components. Pursuant to the MOU, faculty members from the PTI is to drive the training of the Amnesty Programme’s delegates in this new facility in specialized fields in oil and gas drilling, Prof Dokubo had said recently during the commissioning of the Oil and Gas Basic Skill Vocational Training Centre, Agadagba in Ondo State. This is one among five uncompleted training centres which will facilitate the training of ex-agitators still awaiting reintegration to fast-tracked the entire process and highly reduced costs for the Federal Government. Already according to Prof Dokubo, 200 beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme have been profile to commence training at the Agadagba training centre, which is equipped with world-class facilities. While counting the gains of the Amnesty Programme and Dokubo’s efforts at deepening peace in the hitherto restive Niger Delta region, Governor Akeredolu of Ondo State said it has drastically improved crude oil production and the Federal Government’s revenue. Also, Ooni of Ife, Oba Ogunwusi Adeyeye 11, declared the Presidential Amnesty Programme under the leadership of Prof. Charles Dokubo as a success story which he is proud to be associated with. Oba Adeyeye said the fully equipped world-class facility built for the training of beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme in oil and gas related skills, will enhance the development of youths in the Niger Delta and the nation at large. Achieving peace under a system like that of Nigeria requires robust financial commitment and the political will on side of the government.  But sustaining it still remains a source of concern. Indeed, without an atom of doubt, sustaining peace in the Niger Delta is imperative and this is the price the government has continued to pay to address the yearning of the people of the oil rich Niger Delta region after decades of neglect.