Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has suspended its 3 months-old strike after exhaustive deliberations during its meeting with the federal government in Abuja yesterday. The president of the union, Professor Biodun Ogunyemi said, the strike was suspended after the union made extensive consultations through its final level of consultation of the National Executive Council which took place between 6 and 7 February, 2019. According to him, “Following a careful review of the report of engagements with the federal government on proposals for addressing all outstanding in the 2013 MoU and 2017 MoA, NEC resolved that the current strike action by the union should be suspended conditionally with effect from 12.01 a.m on Friday 8th February, 2019. “However, should government fail to fulfill its part of the agreement as reflected in the 2019 memorandum of Action, ASUU shall resume its suspended strike action as the union seems necessary.” He frowned at the actions of some vice chancellors who attempted to break their patriotic struggles for the revitalisation of public universities in Nigeria. “ASUU will not shy away from taking headlong those vice chancellors who are reputed for acts of impunity, nepotism and other forms of conduct which are antithetic to university culture and the progressive development of our universities. Our union will compile all shenanigans and forward them to relevant authorities for further action,” he said. He further stressed that the strike was situated in the context of accumulated records of indifference and lackadaisical attitude of government to negotiated agreements with the union. He added that the outstanding issues the union is asking for include, “funding for the revitalisation of public universities based on the FGN-ASUU MoU of 2012, 2013 and the MoA of 2017, reconstitution of the current government team to allow for a leader and chairman of the FGN-ASUU renegotiating team, release of the forensic audit report of earned allowances,” among others. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that the indefinite strike which commenced on Sunday, 4th November, 2018 is for improved funding of universities and implementation of previous agreements with the government among other issues.