After being vilified by the federal government, political parties and other Nigerians for cancelling last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday bounced back with a stern warning to the country’s politicians to stop overheating the polity with their comments. INEC cautioned that its lifting of the ban on campaigns for the presidential and the National Assembly polls was not a licence for the politicians to spew destructive comments. At a world press conference held at the International Conference Centre (ICC) in Abuja to update Nigerians on the steps the commission has taken to address the logistics problems which led to the postponement of the first leg of the general elections last Saturday, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, reiterated that the commission is undeterred in its resolve to conduct free, fair and credible elections. To the politicians of all shades, who have turned INEC to a punching bag, Yakubu warned them against making further inciting statements. He admonished them to play the game by the rules no matter their grievances. Yakubu, who denied allegations that some of INEC officials, including a national commissioner were arrested by the security agencies, advised that all violators of the electoral rules and laws must be treated according to the Electoral Act. His remarks may be in apparent reference to Monday’s directive by President Muhammadu Buhari to security forces and the military to deal ruthlessly with any ballot box snatcher during the rescheduled elections. On the issue of logistics which led to the postponement of the polls, the INEC boss said that all the materials meant for this Saturday’s presidential and the National Assembly elections had been distributed to all the states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 95 per cent of the card readers reconfigured. He said: “Any materials still in offices are those for the elections coming up on the 9th March” and insisted that logistics activities had gone into advanced stages. To the politicians, Yakubu said: “Don’t overheat the polity. We will stay on the cause and our earlier vow that only the votes of Nigerians will determine who wins.” He said that the commission would now brief journalists daily until the elections were over. On the purported arrest of some INEC national commissioners, directors and the invitation of others after a raid by security agents, Yakubu refuted the claims. He said: “No commissioner was picked up, no house was raided. The national commissioner you are talking about is in his office. None was picked by security agents.” There were speculations that INEC’s head of logistics committee, Prof. Okechukwu Ibeanu, was detained by security agents over the flaws associated with the botched polls. Yakubu, who insisted that INEC operations were independent, said: “All decisions on the administration of the commission are taken independently. We will continue to be independent. The commission is saying that all the violators of the Electoral Act should be punished according to the law. “At my last briefing of stakeholders, I announced an adjusted schedule of activities that would lead to the elections on Saturday, 23rd March, 2019. In order to actualise the new timetable, we identified six activities covering three broad areas: deployment of materials, movement of personnel and configuration of the Smart Card Readers. Clear timelines were assigned to the activities which will lead to the opening of polls on Saturday,” he said. Yakubu continued: “Let me therefore present to you the level of implementation so far achieved as follows: By 4pm yesterday, all issues relating to the delivery of the materials were identified and virtually addressed. Ballot papers, result sheets and a host of non-sensitive materials are now in locations across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “Our state offices commenced the process of inviting stakeholders to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to examine the retrieved materials deployed last week and to witness the batching of materials according to local government areas (LGAs). This is ongoing at the moment and is expected to be completed today (Tuesday, 19th February, 2019,” Yakubu said. The INEC chairman said that the movement of materials to LGAs for batching according to wards and polling units shall take place today and tomorrow. “All registration area centres (RACs) are to be activated by 9.00am on Friday, 22nd February, 2019. Personnel and materials should be at the MCs by mid-day on Friday, 22, February 2019. Refresher training for ad-hoc personnel should take place at the MCs on Friday, 22nd February 2019. Personnel and materials must arrive at the polling units latest 7am on Saturday, 23rd February, 2019. Opening of polls nationwide will take place at 8am on Saturday, 23rd February, 2019,” Yakubu said. “You would recall that in my address to stakeholders, I mentioned that we intended to reschedule the elections for just 24 hours to enable us to deliver the final batch of sensitive materials for the elections. However, our ICT team notified us that it would require more time to reconfigure the Smart Card Readers in time for the elections. “Let me explain why. The Smart Card Readers (SCRs) are configured to only open for use at 8am on election day and to automatically shut down by 10 pm. This is designed to forestall any illegal use of the SCRs before the appointed time of elections. There are roughly 180,000 SCRs to be deployed for the elections and the ICT team said that they would require five to six days to complete the configuration. I am glad to say that as at today, about 98 per cent of the SCRs has been reconfigured and we are confident that by tomorrow all would be ready, which is a day earlier than scheduled,” Yakubu said. He said that campaigns for the gubernatorial, state Houses of Assembly, and the FCT Area Councils elections had also been extended to midnight Thursday, 7th March 2019. “While we fully understand the disappointment and even anger that followed the rescheduling of the elections on 16th February, I wish to appeal to stakeholders to be more dispassionate and circumspect in their comments in order not to overheat the polity,” Yakubu said. Presidency, PDP Bicker Over PMB’s Order On Election Riggers Meanwhile, the presidency and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have returned to the trenches over President Buhari’s directive to security forces to be ruthless with ballot box snatchers and political thugs. While the presidency defended Buhari’s comment that anyone who dares to snatch ballot boxes during this weekend’s elections would be doing it for the last time, stressing that it should be seen as a strong message against the long history of savagery associated with elections in the country, the PDP said that it was designed to ruin the polls and the nation’s democracy. In an interaction with State House Correspondents, presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, recalled that during some past elections in the country, innocent voters lost their lives while ballot boxes were snatched by armed thugs. He said: “Snatching ballot boxes often entails putting the lives of innocent Nigerians at risk. About 10 years ago, evidence was brought before an election tribunal from one of the states in the North Central zone of the gruesome killing of 26 prospective voters by ballot box snatchers. “Their modus operandi is well known. They storm election venues in commando style, overwhelm the law-enforcement agents and seize ballot boxes leaving a trail of death and injury,” Shehu said. According to him, “anyone who dares to put the lives of innocent citizens at risk in their desperation to rig elections, must be prepared for the possibility of losing their own lives because our security agents will certainly not stand by, clap for them and watch them kill and maim.” He said that Buhari had the safety and security of Nigerians uppermost in mind when he made the comment, and should be praised rather than criticised for issuing this stern warning to potential ballot box snatchers. Shehu further expressed concern about those attacking the president’s comment and their worry over the fate of anyone caught snatching ballot boxes. He said: “This sounds like members of the opposition, specifically the PDP who have perfected plans to rig the elections and to snatch ballot boxes. They can tell that President Buhari is not prepared to tolerate their antics this time around, and they are afraid. They have shown their intent.” The presidential spokesperson noted that no one had anything to fear from the president’s comments if their conscience and intentions are clear. “Let’s just have free and fair elections and no one need to worry about anything,” he said. Atiku Cautions Against Carrying Out PMB’s Order On Ballot Box Snatchers Also yesterday, the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, cautioned the military against executing Buhari’s directive to be ruthless with ballot box snatchers, declaring the order as an unlawful. Atiku stated this at the 84th National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the PDP held in Abuja yesterday. He alleged of plots by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to manipulate the card readers ahead of the polls. The former vice president, who described the president’s directive as undemocratic, said that Buhari owes Nigeria a credible election just like he was elected into office under a democratic government. Atiku said: “I want to direct this message to military commanders and officers. You know that as military officers you are not bound to obey orders that are manifestly unlawful; that is the law. “If you are a professional, you are not bound to obey any order that is manifestly unlawful. I have been trained by the military and police, so I know that,” he said. He asserted that according to the nation’s laws, the military has no role to play in the conduct of elections. On plots to manipulate the card reader, Atiku said: “We have just discovered that the APC has hired many of their operatives and has taken them to China to be trained, and they have been so trained, and they are back, and they are equipped with devices that are meant to slow or fasten our card readers. “So, if you are in the South-South, South-East and North-Central, you are likely to get your card readers to be slowed by those APC operatives. “We have seen the machines, we have interviewed some of those who have gone on this training, and we have passed that information to the PDP campaign council to pass to you. “But if you are from the North West or North East, the tendency is that they will use these machines to fast-track the readings of your card readers, so that many of their supporters can vote while disenfranchising the other three zones. “I thought you should know that we have supplied the information to the campaign council, and you will even see the copy of the machine which those operatives are to hold. It is like a telephone but that is its job. I felt I should let you know, and you should be guided accordingly,” he said. Atiku Want To Set Nigeria On Fire – Oshiomhole In a counter attack, APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, lashed out at Atiku, alleging that his intention is to set Nigeria ablaze. Oshiomhole, who also said that Atiku and the PDP were deliberately distorting the facts on Buhari’s directive to the security agencies, stated that it portends that the PDP is pro-violence. The APC chairman made the remarks while addressing journalists in Abuja. He claimed that the PDP has already released $111m to buy votes for Saturday election. Earlier in a statement signed by APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party accused the opposition party of descending into a new level of “rudeness and incivility” as regard the office of the president. The APC also raised fresh fears that the PDP were deploying monies for vote-buying in Saturday’s rescheduled presidential election. On his part, the Senate President and the director-general of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Bukola Saraki, warned the APC against ruining the nation’s democracy. He alleged that the APC was planning to scuttle the forthcoming election. He said: “My message to them (APC) is that you won in 2015 because democracy was working in Nigeria. This democracy that worked for you is to work for generations yet unborn. Do not ruin Nigeria’s democracy because of your ambition. Democracy is bigger than you and as such it worked for you and it will also work for others.” Saraki described APC caucus meeting as “Nollywood movie,” adding that they are looking for another postponement. The PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, who reiterated that president was wrong in his directive to shoot ballot box snatchers, urged the military not to obey the order. Noting that Nigeria is a member of the comity of nations, Secondus warned that any military officer who obeys the order would be reported to the international community. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, also faulted Buhari’s directive to the military, stressing that such an unlawful order should not be obeyed. We’ll Report Security Operatives To ICC – Ortom Similarly, Benue State Governor, Mr. Samuel Ortom, has warned that any security operative, who shoots a ballot box snatchers at the election in disregard of the constitutional provisions, would face prosecution at the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, The Netherland. Describing the order as unfortunate, Ortom said that it was in disregard of the provisions of the laws of the land which amounts to call for extra-judicial killings. Ortom who condemned what he called brazen disregard for the rule of law by the present administration, described Buhari’s directive as “unpresidential.”