The Center for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) has described recent comments made by the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Prince Uche Secondus as inflammatory and highly condemnable. The Centre was reacting The PDP National Chairman address at a rally in Asaba, the Delta state capital on Thursday 31st January, 2019 where he said, “There will be war if the 2019 general election is rigged,” saying the comment was not only insensitive but dangerous especially at a critical moment where the country is going into the elections. In a press release by the Centre’s Coordinator, Curbing Hate and Dangerous Speech Project, Hamza Ibrahim, who described the comment as reckless and shouldn’t come from the opposition party at a time like this. Ibrahim said; “Uche Secondus and all other political actors are expected to be cautious of any act that may jeopardize the pre, during and post election period. Should there be anything they aren’t comfortable with, there are appropriate and peaceful channels through which they can express themselves. “The remarks by Mr. Secondus are condemnable in totality, and we do not expect such from a major national political party. Rather than demand for a credible election through a threatening process, Uche Secondus and indeed all democrats, should devise a safe, acceptable and peaceful approach to advocate for fair play. In the buildup to the 2015 general elections, CITAD cautioned Rotimi Ameachi, the then Governor of Rivers State over similar statement (that they will make the country ungovernable if the elections were rigged).” The Centre also said it has observed that politicians are becoming passionate in engaging in inflammatory comments to drive their cause, notable among these reckless remarks were those made by seating Gov. of Zamfara state, Abdul’aziz Yari in a viral video, saying; “I am saying that the committee sent by Oshiomhole to come and do the dirty job which he resend again should never dear come to Zamfara state, and we are ready including myself to be taken to graveyard tomorrow, if you he know that his father and mother born him he should send these people to Zamfara state and is fight to finish.” While cautioning politicians to desist from engaging in inflammatory and dangerous comments as well as hate speech, CITAD urged that political actors should rather observe and track the actions of all agencies having any role in the election for lapses or non-adherence to guidelines, procedure or laws and report these clear, actionable suggestions to remedy the problems or breach and to demand for sanctions on actors responsible. Center for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) implements “Curbing Hate and Dangerous Speech in Nigeria Project” with support from MacArthur Foundation.