Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, has pleaded with the Fulani community not to engage in reprisal attacks after 66 of their members were killed in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. The governor, who made the plea in Kajuru, yesterday, during a meeting with various stakeholders, said killings have become incessant in Iri axis, including Kuturo, Unguwar Barde, Maro gida among other areas in the local government. “I know it’s the Fulanis that are mostly affected in this crisis as over 100 people have been killed but as Muslims, we have been advised to forgive, to be patient as God avenges every evil. “You must not take laws into your hands by killing anybody, as you are likely to harm innocent people. Allow the security to do their work please.” The governor alleged that some elders in the communities were responsible for the killings having provided weapons for the youths who carried out the attacks. ”I am always disheartened each time I visit Kajuru and sincerely, I am tired of this situation, because the elders know those involved in the killings and have refused to fish them out. “Maybe when government and the security agencies withdraw support from your communities, you will know our worth and do the needful. “I have also asked the council chairman not to bail any leader who will be arrested in connection with the menace. Nobody is above the law, hence, culprits must be prosecuted, if guilty”, el-Rufa’I stressed. The governor called on the youths to stop the unnecessary killings in the area, warning that anyone of them caught would also face death penalty. Earlier, the council chairman, Mr Cafra Caino, said miscreants in the communities have refused to allow peace to reign, adding that all peace loving people must work to expose the perpetrators and bring them to justice. “We have given bikes to village heads to help us manage the security issues. We must not allow them divide us along religious and ethnic sentiments. We therefore urge all leaders to pinpoint the culprits”. Also speaking, the Chief Imam of Adara kingdom, Nuhu Sha’aban, who is also a Fulani leader, said majority of those killed were women and children less than one-year-old. “We, the Fulanis, have lived in this forest for over 41 years but the youths keep ambushing and killing us. Some of us were slaughtered and others burnt and thrown in ditches”, Sha’aban disclosed. The Imam called on the commissioner of police to transfer most of the policemen in the area, whom he claimed were mostly indigenes of the communities, who have been at their duty posts for over 10 years. The village head of Rafin Rogo, Jonah Luka-Sarki, also reechoed the claims of the governor that the perpetrators were very well known and must be brought to justice for peace to reign in the area. “We don’t have to disclose their names in public, but we must ensure they are arrested because they have become nuisances to all the tribes in this LGA. We all must fear God and bring an end to this menace.