The Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwanu Akiolu,  and the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, have assured  President Muhammadu Buhari that he would win the forthcoming presidential election in Lagos and across Nigeria. Akiolu spoke when President Buhari and his campaign team visited his palace in Lagos Island yesterday after arriving in the state in continuation of their rallies ahead of the February 16 election, describing the president  as a man of his words. The traditional leader, who noted that the body of traditional rulers in the state were happy to receive the team, said that they appreciated Buhari’s efforts as a highly respected person in Nigeria. He assured Buhari that there would be a repeat of his 2015 electoral victory in the coming election. “Give Buhari another chance and you will see how Nigeria will move forward,” Akiolu said. The monarch decried the rot that past administrations left behind in the country. “We should not go back to the past again. Now that you are here, Insha Allah, on February 16, God will open the way for you. The best will happen to you,” he said. Akiolu, the chairman, Lagos State Traditional Council of Obas and Chiefs, thanked the president for his achievements since assuming office and urged Nigerians to continue to support him. He said that he had a catalogue of requests, including mass transit and the pressing issues of the Apapa ports, which had all been written down for the president’s attention. Meanwhile, President  Buhari has said that the various economic policies propounded by his administration had started to yield the desired results, manifesting in steady growth of the nation’s economy. The president stated this at a session with members of the Organised Private Sector held at Lagos House, Marina, before proceeding to the Teslim Balogun Stadium, venue for All Progressives Congress (APC) mega rally held in Lagos,yesterday. He said it was gratifying to note that the economic policies of his administration were already making the desired impact as evidenced by steady growth in the economy in the last three years. The president added that the APC government had kept the promise to boost the economy through blocking leakages in government finances, increasing capital expenditure and inflows, and implementing the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), among others. “I firmly believe that our economic policies are beginning to make the desired impact. Economic growth has resumed and is continuing to improve. Growth was higher in 2017 than in 2016. Data from external sources show that it was also higher in 2018 than in 2017. I am confident that as we stay the course, it will be better still at the end of 2019. “Inflation is coming down steadily. There is stability in the exchange rate, and foreign exchange is readily available for genuine businesses. Foreign reserves are adequate and growing; capital inflows have increased and the trade balance is positive. “We are paying off debts that were not even publicly acknowledged before now, including those owed to states, the electricity sector, oil marketers, exporters, backlog of salaries of workers and pensioners, amongst others,’’ he said. Among the organisations which made presentations to the President at the session were Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), and Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME). Speaking at the APC mega rally, Buhari vowed to recover the nation’s stolen money from looters and send them to prison, even as he called on Lagosians to vote for him and other APC candidates from ‘the bottom to the top’. Also speaking at the event, national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu said the votes from Lagos is sure for Buhari as he had delivered on his promises. According to him, the event was a celebration of democracy and not about the campaign of Buhari because, “Lagos is sure, very sure for the APC. This is a broom revolution. You’ve heard our state chairman who had catalogued when Buhari came here to campaign four years ago, he did not make fluke promises. We saw the action.” Tinubu also attacked former President Olusegun Obasanjo, blaming him for the poor supply of electricity in the nation. “Then, Obasanjo came. We told them that there was no other way to have business evolution and revolution in this country without steady power supply. I introduced independent generating power projects in Badagry. What did he do? He and Atiku opposed it. I went to court. Who was my lawyer in court? Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. I won in court and we started generating 300MW, the first state to do it. “Imagine, that was in 1999. If Nigeria was dedicated to electricity generation, you would not see Dunlop and Michelin move out of the country,” he said. Tinubu also criticised Atiku Abubakar’s running mate,  Peter Obi, saying he was only vast in creating a ‘container economy’, rather than real jobs. “And they call one man Obi, in one party, saying he will create jobs. He has not been able to tell us how we can make brake parts for those vehicles, how we can make wheel spanners on our own for those vehicles. “And he said maybe he can go and expand the port in Benin Republic so we can clear our cargoes faster. I call that ‘container economy, Obi China,” he said. Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode declared that Lagos had been delivered to the APC already, saying that the achievements his administration recorded would not have been possible without the support of President Buhari. “In the first two years, we were in economic recession caused by the PDP, but we have stabilised. PDP said they will make Nigeria work again, yet they destroyed Nigeria. We should vote for APC for continuity and for more jobs,. “We appreciate Mr. President for his support to our state in the last three and half years. The achievements that we have recorded in Lagos were possible because of his support. This election is not about tribe or religion, it’s about infrastructure, jobs and the economy and the right path to go is to go to the APC,” he stated. 