The Senator representing Kano Central, Alhaji Rabi’u Kwankwaso has commended Kano residents for their massive turnout during the PDP Presidential campaign rally held at the Sani Abacha stadium on Feb. 10. Kwankwaso made the commendation while addressing Islamic scholars who paid him a courtesy visit at his personal residence in Kano on Thursday night. “I want to use this opportunity to commend and thank Kano people for coming out en masse to attend the presidential rally of People’s Democratic Party on Sunday, Feb. 10. “During the occasion, only God knows the number of people or youths that fainted at the Sani Abacha stadium where the rally took place,” he said. Kwankwaso, who was a former governor of Kano State, said that the massive turnout of people during the rally was a clear testimony that Kano people “are for the PDP’’. He advised Islamic scholars in the state to avoid delving into politics instead they should maintain their status as religious leaders whose responsibility was to advise leaders on how to enhance good governance. “We expect Islamic scholars to maintain their status as religious leaders as politicitisation of religious can be inimical to Nigeria’s democracy. “It is expected of religious leaders when they see something wrong, they advise leaders in position of authority to correct the wrong. “It is our belief that with good and meaningful advises from religious leaders will ensure good governance for the development of our state and the country,”Kwankwaso said. He called on the people of Kano to vote for PDP candidates at all levels, adding that electorate should be able to use their conscience to elect credible candidates and leaders with foresight. Earlier, Sheik Nasiru Kabara, who spoke on behalf of the Islamic scholars that cut across all sects, pledged their support for Atiku Abubakar and Abba Kabir-Yusuf, the PDP Presidential Candidate and Kano state governorship candidate respectively. He said that their decision to support the party candidates was based on the achievements recorded by the administration of the former governor of the state. “All Imams and other Islamic scholars in the state are solidly behind the PDP candidates in the state, “he said. 