The National Judicial Council (NJC) yesterday set up a special committee to consider the petitions against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, and the acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad. The Council’s director of information, Mr Soji Oye,  revealed that the NJC took the decision at the end of an emergency meeting convened yesterday to consider the responses of both justices to the three petitions written against them. Oye also revealed that the Council had received a fresh petition against Justice Onnoghen by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and had forwarded same to him for his response within seven working days. In a statement after the meeting, Oye said that the NJC had resolved to constitute a complaints committee in accordance with its regulations. “Members resolved to constitute the Preliminary Complaints Assessment Committee in accordance with Regulation 17 of the National Judicial Council Judicial Discipline Regulations, 2017 and report to Council on the 13th of February 2019,” the statement reads. Meanwhile, the Council has reaffirmed its confidence in Justice Umaru Abdullahi and asked him to continue as the interim chairman of the Council. The Council, however, adjourned its meeting to reconvene on Wednesday, February 13, 2019. The NJC had, after its emergency meeting on 29th January,  considered four petitions filed at its secretariat. The petitions are: Petition against Hon. Mr. Justice W.S.N. Onnoghen, (GCON) by Zikhrillahi Ibrahim of Resource Centre for Human Rights & Civil Education; Petition against Hon Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad (CFR) by Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative; Petition against Hon. Mr. Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad (CFR) by Olisa Agbakoba, SAN, OON; and Petition against Hon. Danladi Yakubu Umar, chairman, Code of Conduct Tribunal by Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative. Both Onnoghen and Muhammad were directed to respond to the petition within seven days, while the petition against Danladi Umar was referred to the Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC).