The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has taken delivery of  sensitive materials for next week’s presidential election. According to the commission, the different zonal stores of state and local government offices of INEC are presently taking delivery of non-sensitive materials for the conduct of the 2019 general elections. Speaking at an interactive forum with INEC press corps, National Commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr Festus Okoye said all is set for the conduct of the elections. “For now, the commission is engaged in readiness for the elections that will take place on the 16th of February, 2019 and 2nd of March, 2019.” “The different zonal stores and state and local government offices of the commission are presently taking delivery of non-sensitive materials for the conduct of the 2019 elections,” Okoye said. Speaking further, the National commissioner said, “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on the other hand is taking delivery of sensitive materials for conduct of the elections.” The sensitive materials in the custody of the CBN, according to Okoye, includes ballot papers and result sheets. For the non-sensitive materials that have already been delivered to both the states and the local government offices, Okoye said they include ballot boxes, voting cubicles, sleeping mats and others. “Most of the resident electoral commissioners have concluded the training of various categories of adhoc staff and are putting finishing touches to other processes, “ Okoye said while urging journalists to be guided by the need to uphold the basic tenets of good reporting in the 2019 general elzctions. “As you go about covering the activities of the commission, it is imperative that you are abreast of the constitutional and legal issues in the conduct of the elections. Always be guided by the need to uphold the basic tenets of good reporting.” While speaking on the ruling of an appeal court in Rivers State that gave the All Progressives Congress (APC) the go ahead to present candidates for the elections, Okoye said the commission is yet to take a final decision concerning the issue. On the burning of the INEC office in Imo state, Okoye said INEC may print PVCs and distribute it to people that had theirs burnt if they can get the data of those affected. 