President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to extend its exploration to six basins in the country. Buhari gave the directive at Barambu town in Alkaleri Local Government Area of the Bauchi State while flagging off the commencement of drilling activities at Kolmani-II Oil Well, Gongola Basin, in Upper Benue Trough. He said, “Exploration in our frontier basins is imperative to the economy of the country. “I, therefore, have directed NNPC to intensify its campaign in the Chad Basin to discover new hydrogen to extend the economy of the people within the region and the nation at large. “Our next level is to ensure that exploration is extended to Chad Basin, Gongola Basin, Anambra Basin, Sokoto Basin, Dahomey Basin, Bida Basin and Benue Trough, for more prosperous Nigeria.” The president reiterated that oil and gas remain critical to the country’s present and future economic development, especially “to the implementation of our budget at all levels of government.” He commended the NNPC for the exploration into Kalmani River II Well which, he said, would spur socioeconomic activities in the area. The president recalled that his association with hydrocarbon research started in Lake Chad when he was the federal commissioner of petroleum and natural resources in 1976. “That era led to the drilling of 23 wells, which two were of gas, where NNPC acquired 2,000 square metres of land in the basin,” he said. Buhari commended the NNPC and other stakeholders in the Kolmani-II oil well project, just as he paid tribute to some university lecturers abducted while undertaking research work on the project. He also commended security agents for working tirelessly to ensure that the area was safe to conduct exploration activities, even as he reiterated his administration’s determination to pursue its goal of ensuring adequate security, enhancing the economy of the country, as well as fighting corruption. On his part, the group managing director of the NNPC, Dr Maikanti Baru, noted that the exercise started many years ago but had to be suspended in year 2000 as a result of the abduction of experts working on the project. While commiserating with those who made sacrifices towards ensuring the realisation of the set goals, Baru said oil exploration was a capital intensive project that took many years to accomplish with patience and perseverance. (NAN) …PMB pledges lasting peace for North-east if re-elected The president yesterday said that restoring a lasting peace to the North East would be paramount on his agenda if elected for a second term. President Buhari, who stated this while addressing the people of Gombe State during a campaign tour, noted that, already, there was a lot of improvement in the area of security in the sub-region when compared to the time he took over the leadership of the country in 2015. He said other areas that would be accorded priority included the agriculture sector and the anti-corruption war. He expressed satisfaction with the success recorded in his first tenure, but pledged to do more if re-elected. The president thanked the people of the state for turning out in their numbers to welcome him to the state. In his remarks, the director-general of the APC campaign team, Rotimi Amaechi, said North-east was the traditional strong-hold of Buhari. Amaechi, who was represented by Senator Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South), said people of the geo-political zone would forever remain grateful to Mr President for restoring peace to their area. Also speaking, Senator Danjuma Goje, a former governor in the state, expressed optimism that Buhari would garner more votes this year than what he secured in 2015.