In a final push for votes, the presidential campaigns of the two leading candidates in tomorrow’s elections, President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday stormed  Katsina and Yola respectively on the last day of the campaign for tomorrow’s elections. Incidentally the two gladiators were flexing ‘crowd muscles’ in their respective home states. President Muhammadu Buhari hails from Katsina, while Atiku Abubakar hails from Adamawa State that has Yola as its capital. In Katsina, there was a historic turnout of mammoth crowd at Muhammadu Dikko Stadium, Katsina, for the APC presidential mega rally yesterday. The ancient city was virtually shut down as President Muhammadu Buhari launched what could pass for a final push to clinch a second term of office. Most roads, markets, business premises and schools in Katsina were closed as civil servants, traders, students and others thronged to the stadium to listen to one of their own, President Buhari, who had come home to seek their support for a second term. Meanwhile the Katsina monarch, Abdulmumini Kabir Usman, yesterday endorsed the APC presidential candidate’s re-election bid based on his first term performance. The Emir of Katsina, who gave the Daura-born Buhari a royal blessing at his palace in Katsina, extolled the general change in governance. The traditional ruler said that he was among those who support Buhari’s war against corruption and insecurity, which he noted, should be the responsibility of all Nigerians. He assured the President of the total support of the emirate in his quest to promote quality governance desired by Nigerians. Earlier, Buhari accompanied by the national chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and governors of Katsina and Ogun states, Aminu Bello Masari and Ibikunle Amosun respectively scored his administration high in the areas of anti-corruption war, security and economy. Buhari challenged his opponents to cross check his remarkable achievements in the critical areas of the nation’s economy, adding that his government’s agricultural and economic policies have resulted to increase in locally produced rice and drastic reduction in rice importation in the country. According to him, the foreign exchange hitherto spent on the importation of rice and other luxury items would be committed to the provision of necessary infrastructure and improvement of the living condition of Nigerians. In Adamawa State, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar said he does not need to campaign in his home state, as he expects nothing less than massive support from his kinsmen. Abubakar enjoined the electorate to appreciate Nigerians for picking one of their own as presidential candidate from the North-East  by coming out to vote for PDP at all levels of the elections. He accused the APC government of maladministration, which led to poverty and its attendant effects on the people. The national chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus urged the people of Adamawa State to vote out Governor Muhammadu Jibrilla, by using their votes in the forthcoming polls. Secondus reiterated that Nigerians would resist any attempt to postpone the forthcoming elections and warned INEC and security agencies to resist the temptation to rig the elections. The PDP chairman vowed that Atiku will not govern the country with cabals around him. The wife of the presidential candidate, Hajiya Rukaiya Atiku, who is the daughter of late Lamido of Adamawa, Aliyu Mustapha, enjoined the people  to vote for her husband, based on the good legacies of her father as a monarch in the state. “My father had left good legacy on peaceful on coexistence, please vote for my husband based on that legacies,” she said. Ahmadu Fintiri, the PDP governorship candidate in the state, said the future direction of the country and the state, will be defined by the next elections and urged the electorate to vote wisely. Fintiri promised to provide security, education and improve the wellbeing of the people of the state.