Former governor of Bayelsa State and leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Timipre Sylva has declared that there will be no more defection from other political parties into the All Progressives Congress (APC)) if President Muhammadu Buhari wins his re-election during the forthcoming presidential polls. Chief Sylva, who made this known in Yenagoa when he received thousands of youths, who dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the APC in the state, said it was time for others in the PDP to join the APC, insisting that after the presidential election, the APC in the Bayelsa State would not admit new members. Sylva, who commended those that defected from the PDP, said they took the right decision to abandon the PDP maintaining that the APC remained their party. Sylva was accompanied to the event by a former acting governor in the state, Werinipre Seibarugu; a former commissioner for Youths, Ibarakumo Otobo; APC state chairman, Jonathan Amos; state publicity secretary, Doifie Buokoribo among others. The former governor said it was time for others in the PDP to join the APC adding that after the presidential election, the APC in the state would not admit new members. He said: “Last time after the APC won the presidential election, we had a wave of defectors. This time if you don’t come before the election, the door of the APC will be closed after the election. “So, those of you who are in the PDP should come over now. We are ready to receive you. If you don’t come, you will be like the foolish virgins and the door will be closed behind you. I call those of you defecting today the wise virgins of the APC”. The defectors, mostly youths, who are indigenes of Tombia-Ekpetiama clan, said the PDP had nothing to offer them and promised to work for the emergence of APC candidates in their constituencies. One of them, Ebi Alamiyeseigha said he held many positions in the PDP in the past but chose to abandon the party because the PDP had not brought development to their clan. Addressing Sylva and other APC leaders, he said: “These roads we are driving on today in our communities were done by former Governor Timipre Sylva and former Speaker Werinipre Seibarugu. We have not seen anything like that since then. “President Muhammadu Buhari has won his reelection. Don’t be deceived. I want to promise you that with today’s defections, PDP is dead in our area.  We are going to vote for the candidates of the APC in the forthcoming elections”. Earlier at the palace of the Paramount Ruler of Ekpetiama,  His Royal Highness Otobotekere Atang Christian, Chief Timipre Sylva solicited support for Bayelsa APC candidates. He called on the people of the clan to elect APC Central Senatorial candidate, Festus Daumebi; the party’s candidate for Yenagoa-Kolokuma federal constituency, Osom Blankson and the House of Assembly candidate. Describing Ekpetiama as his adopted kingdom, he asked the people of the area to reelect President Buhari to enable him consolidate on his achievements in the state. He said: “If you vote for President Buhari and other candidates of the APC, you will see progress”, adding that this is the time for the people to take back Bayelsa from the PDP. He added: “In Bayelsa instead of going forward, we are moving backward. Let’s take back our state before it is taken to where we don’t know. “We have a road project going on. It will go to Jonathan’s village. This project was started by President Buhari. In his second term, he will complete the road and also develop our state”. Receiving his guests, the paramount ruler gave the candidates royal blessings describing all the people in the clan as his children. He prayed for the success of their campaigns and told his visitors that they were safe in the hands of a former Commissioner for Youths, Ibarakumo Otobo, who is a chieftain of the APC. 