The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kaduna State chapter has debunked what it termed as false alarm raised by Kaduna state government that 66 Fulanis were killed on the eve of the postponed election in Kajuru, Kajuru local government area of the state. According to the State CAN chairman, Reverend John Joseph Hayab, “CAN Kaduna State wishes to debunk the false alarm raised about killing in Kaduna State which have been made to look like a breaking news. “The press statement by Mr Samuel Aruwan, the spokesman of the Governor of Kaduna state suggests that “the killings in Kajuru Local Government was committed yesterday 15/2/2019. This is false in its entirety. “We are aware that the incident happened in the late hours of Sunday 10th February to 12th February, 2019 at about 1:00am at Gindin Gada, Maro Ward of Kajuru Local Government in Kaduna State where unidentified hoodlums went into the village and killed about 11 people in their sleep, which lead to reprisals. “Two of the suspects were said to have been apprehended and handed over to the divisional police. It was on the afternoon of the said date of the attack (as contained in the press statement) that the district head of Kufana, Mr Titus Dauda, and four of his local chiefs were released after their invitation by the DSS state command on the issue. “We see this as an illogical intentional, premeditated attempt at steering violence in the state for whatever expected gains. “It is disheartening that the media that is supposed to be objective and the true mirror of the society has rather chosen to bow to peanuts against her code of ethics”. “The incident of raising false alarm by the Kaduna state government should make Nigerians realise that some of our leaders are also guilty of hate speech themselves and that makes them major actors in the game that have denied us peace and have claimed the lives of our love ones. “We call on the general public to treat with disregard the press statement from the office of the Kaduna state governor and to note that should Kaduna state experience any bridge of security before, during and after the general elections we shall hold the Kaduna state responsible. “We call on our media to grow above the temptations that water down our trust in them, the media houses must not allow themselves to be bought over but be objective and honest in their reportage”. On the postponement of the election, the CAN Chairman said, “ this is saddening, it is disappointing and frustrating. “CAN Kaduna State wishes to register the fact that she is aware of challenges that may be encountered and we expect that INEC should have been aware that such challenges will come and should have planned against some of this challenges in advance’’. “We appreciate the United States of America (USA), the European Union (EU) and the international community for the interest and efforts at ensuring that Nigeria conduct a free, fair and peaceful general elections. “We call on INEC to be more serious about proper management of her logistics and operational plans. CAN Kaduna State also call on INEC and government to the fact that the world is watching us. We must not give our citizens and the world the impression that we are not serious or that we cannot be trusted’. “INEC should also ensure that given the circumstances all electoral officers that were already deployed ahead of the proposed elections today are safely conveyed back to their destination and strict security should be provided at places where materials have been stored in the various state and local government areas’’. “We call on US, EU and the international community to strictly ensure that the travel ban earlier announced as punishment to the enemies of democracy and elections riggers is sustained and implemented without compromise’’. “We equally plead with these international bodies never to be tired nor discouraged from playing her part to the success of a credible elections in Nigeria. “We are appealing to our members to be peaceful and patient with what has happened. We call on all to be willing and ready to make additional sacrifices to travel next week to cast their votes so that only the right leaders get to steer the affairs of the nation in the next four years”.