Deputy director general, Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Arch Waziri Bulama has declared that contrary to the practice in the past, President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign rallies are being sponsored by donors across the world. Bulama who also dismissed criticisms about the health status of President Muhammadu Buhari, said the president “is even stronger than many average Nigerian men.” Speaking at an interactive session with newsmen yesterday, Bulama said having visited many states since the campaign started, president Buhari did not show signs of stress and no sign of weakness. “I think the President from the way he works in this campaign has shown that he is stronger than many average men in this country. This is a man at that age, flying from city to city and at least two cities every day of the week, commissioning projects, meeting traditional rulers, stakeholders and still returning to attend to other state functions and other groups in the Aso Villa. When asked to clear the air on the sources of APC campaign funds, Bulama said: “Let me add that since Buhari’s entrance into politics in 2002, his efforts in campaign have always been propelled, sponsored and financed by voluntary donors. Every political activity has been funded by individual donors and contributors. “Don’t forget that the fund to purchase form to re-contest did not even come from him. It was the efforts and contributions of the youths called Nigeria Consolidation Ambassadors. They made contributions throughout the country to raise the money for the form. “Up till this moment, this campaign is propelled by voluntary support and willing participation. Therefore, these crowds are not sponsored or bought crowds. Again, our previous elections from 1999 till 2015 under the previous ruling party, have witnessed expenditure of huge sums of money. “They used to influence the institutions of the state to interfere in elections. But the APC under President Buhari has adopted a different approach to election management. Our model is to reach out to every Nigerian voter to persuade him or her to vote for the APC. “You know that the election system in Nigeria from the watershed of 2015 till date has been a reference point because the APC under President Buhari has allowed INEC and other stakeholders in the election process to diligently do their work to the best of their ability.” 