Before now, there were hues and cries from several quarters as to the ‘use and dump’ fate that befell some supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari after the 2015 election. An army of politicians, praise singers, hangers-on and genuine supporters of the president suffered heartbreak soon after their victory dance. Till date, the worst antagonists of Mr. President are among his disgruntled supporters, who placed personal values on their contributions to his emergence as lord of the Aso Rock Villa. Many of such disappointed loyalists refused to work for Buhari’s second term bid. But all that may soon change, especially with the President’s recent pledge to turn a new leaf with regards to appreciating loyalty. The new realization by Mr. President may not be unconnected with challenges his administration faced, especially the lingering cold war with the leadership of the National Assembly. To go down memory lane, President Buhari had in 2015 apparently underrated the relevance of the Legislature to the overall success of a democratically elected government. He had adopted a neutral role in the process leading to emergence of presiding officers of the National Assembly. His popular mantra at that time was “I will work with any leadership elected by the Assembly”. The president now knows better and may wish he had acted differently. All hope is not lost though as majority of voters have kept faith with the President for a second term. Buhari now has the chance to make amends to the recruitment process in the Legislature. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has captured an overwhelming majority seats in the National Assembly, which avails it the opportunity for smoother executive-legislature relations. The ruling party must effectively zone top positions to avoid the confusion of 2015. Suffice to lay it bare that of the legacy political parties that dissolved to form the APC, the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) came out the least fortunate in the last four years. The Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) has maintained the Presidency, the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) has the vice president, while the PDP decampees hijacked the control of the National Assembly. As it stands today, the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan (APC, Yobe North) is the highest public official from the defunct ANPP. The misfortune of the ANPP flowed from the inability of the APC to pull its weight and stamp its feet in the process of electing presiding officers of the National Assembly in 2015. It is imperative for the party to commence search for consistently loyal members to take charge of the legislative arm by June 2019. The party should beam its search light on senators and members of the House of Representatives with track record of loyalty to the party and to Mr. President. The APC cannot afford another round of rancorous term, where its majority in the National Assembly metamorphosed into a rebellious opposition. Let it be known that several lawmakers would indicate interest in the plum jobs, however the APC should be wary of political immigrants, who move with the weather and the tide. Zoning of elective positions must strictly consider capacity, loyalty, experience, consistency, ranking and should not be reduced to reward for mediocrity. It is therefore important to draw attention of the party and indeed Mr. President to the adroit loyalty exhibited by the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan during the turbulent times. The Senate Leader effectively blocked numerous attempts by the present leadership of the Senate to initiate negative legislations against the Presidency. He also effectively played the role of leading the majority APC senators after Senate President Bukola Saraki dumped the party. Ahmed Lawan remains the highest ranked APC senator and most experienced lawmaker in the present Assembly; having been in the National Assembly since 1999. He has remained in the opposition since 1999. His attempt at the Senate Presidency in 2015 failed, partly due to the indecision of the then APC leadership. The APC should also reflect on the zoning arrangement from 1999 to 2015. Under former President Olusegun Obasanjo (South West) from 1999-2007, the South East produced all the Presidents of Senate. On return of power to the North in 2007, the office of President of Senate was zoned to the North. The APC can also revert to its adopted zoning for the Senate in 2015, when Ahmed Lawan was adopted by the party as Senate President, while Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila was chosen for the position of Speaker. The President and the APC should already have a tentative zoning plan to be activated now that the national elections are over. Such approach will eliminate tension and draw a close to the cold war between the two arms of government. The president must not allow another four years of damaging bitter quarrel with lawmakers. Congratulations Mr. President on your victory.  – Abdulrahman, a public affairs analyst sent this piece from Kaduna