Former Senate President, Ameh Ebute, has raised the alarm over the alleged alliance between former President Olusegun Obasanjo and leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ebute said the unholy union between Obasanjo and the leadership of the PDP will fail, adding that it cannot destroy the gains recorded by the President Muhammadu Buhari led federal government in the last few years. The elder statesman, who is also the leader of the Congress for Patriotic Citizens (CPC), at a press conference in Abuja, called on Nigerians to rise to the challenge of confronting and subduing unpatriotic, corrupt and selfish past political office holders in order to save Nigeria from total collapse. He said, “Other leaders of Nigeria since independence are not this privileged or so blessed. So, if today any one of us finds reason to complain that we are yet to nurture a nation we truly desire and to the maturity our founding fathers dreamt,  a leader who should  take the double blame is Chief Obasanjo. Why? Because leadership fell on him at Nigeria’s most auspicious moments. But we saw nothing he did wonderfully.” He said the CPC finds it completely distasteful, the  present gang-up and conspiracy against Nigeria by the PDP and the former president. “We cannot understand Obasanjo anymore.  We do not know what he implies when he accuses INEC of ‘recruiting collation officers who are already awarding results based on their projects to actualise the perpetuation agenda in which the people will not matter and the votes will not count.’ As former President of Nigeria, isn’t this statement too fluid? Even if Chief Obasanjo hates Buhari, hatchet jobs like  this one as contained in his recent letter should be left for his ‘boys.’ “There is no way Obasanjo can publicly announce his retirement in politics  and sneak back through the back door  in any unholy alliance with dark forces  to destroy Nigeria’’. (rtd) did by rallying nearly 100 retired Military Generals in support of President Buhari, we shall also assemble all elder statesmen across the country to come to the rescue of Nigeria, bearing in mind that selfish individuals like Obasanjo   or any political party or group of persons don’t own Nigeria.” He said that all Nigerian citizens must wake up to uphold the virtues of leaders who can stand for the country like Buhari. Also yesterday, Scholars in Diaspora under the aegis of Association of Nigerian Scholars in the Diaspora (ANSD) has said that there are plots to rig the February 23 polls for PDP, adding that  Nigeria deserves better leader like Buhari. The scholars expressed disappointment at the postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly elections five hours before balloting began last Saturday by the electoral umpire. The scholars said the postponement had caused severe hardships to many Nigerian voters and candidates, especially those who traveled down to exercise their franchise. A statement jointly signed by Prof. Bitrus Paul Gwamna, President and Prof. Pita Ogaba Agbese, Secretary-General, called on Nigerians to reject the alleged plot by former President Olusegun Obasanjo to discredit the forthcoming elections. The scholars affirmed that Nigerians deserve a better leader like President Muhammadu Buhari, who has laid a better foundation for the next level.