Public Internet Access (PIA) services are generally provided free and are convenient for the public where personal data is inappropriately or insecurely shared. It may constitute risks to members of the public. Similarly, where operators are unable to provide adequate security for use of these services, malicious software and other applications can be introduced to harm members of the public or to incur significant economic loss. Commenting on this issue, the director-general of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Dr Isa Ibrahim urged Nigerians to exercise caution in the use of PIA services in public places. In a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday, he said NITDA, in line with its mandate to promote and regulate the Information Technology (IT) sector in Nigeria, had set mechanisms in place to enforce compliance with the recently issued PIA regulation, even as it directed all PIA service providers such as IT companies, restaurants, hotels, event centres to comply with the Nigerian Data Protection Regulation of NITDA, 2019, issued pursuant to section 6 of the NITDA Act, 2007, stressing only registered, verified and vetted providers can provide public internet access services in Nigeria. “The general public is therefore advised to always enquire if providers of free internet access services are duly registered with NITDA and therefore met all minimum requirements to offer free public internet access securely in Nigeria. The public is further advised to ensure personal information such as personnel identities, residential addresses, banking details, etc are not shared over public networks,” it said. The statement added that members of the public are also advised to use up-to-date antivirus software on their laptops and other computing devices before use of such free and public internet access services. To further enhance users’ safety on public internet access, even as it recommended that the public should always verify Wi-Fi access point before connection as the possibility exists for criminals to create a fake Wi-Fi-name to lure the public into connecting to it and thereby intercepting all activities on the network. It also urged IPA users to always confirm that a website is secure before carrying out transactions. “Website addresses starting with https:// provide secure and encrypted transmission of users’ data; try using Virtual Private Network (VPN) enabled browsers; and avoid using special services sites on public internet access services. “The general public is therefore called upon to support NITDA in its efforts at ensuring citizen’s safety and security while on the cyberspace, especially when using public internet access services, by always following some of the best practices outlined above,” it added.