As the race for the presidential election hit up. Many reports of one party who has a better chance of winning in one particular zone across top geopolitical area in Nigeria have been making rounds online.  However, recent reports from Ballard partners, an international company hired by PDP to evaluate and determine PDP chance of winning by asking indigenes in certain areas in the country random question about their view on the current government and the candidate they will most likely vote for in the forthcoming general election shows that the incumbent president has a far better chance of retaining his position as the national Head.  The interview which was carried out in the field between January 3, 2018 and February 2, 2019 shows that Buhari is leading the vote with 9 points (51% / 42%). Undecideds are at 4% and all other will score a total of 3%. This leave Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate for PDP and his team with more than enough work to do.  Below is the overall report 1.Buhari is leading the vote with 9 points (51% / 42%). Undecideds are at 4% and all other will score a total of 3%. So, Buhari cannot be stopped.  2.Voters generally approve of how Buhari has been handling his job and have positive view towards him.  3.Voters generally do not like Atiku because of the corruption issues around him. Poor for Buhari, middle class for Atiku – but poor are the majority.  4.Many people are disappointed with the choice they have: 19% of PVC holders said they don’t see the reason to vote.  5.No other candidate is going to get up to 2%.    Methodology.  1.Interviews were carried out in the field between January 3, 2018 and February 2, 2019. Data collection method: face-to-face interviews.  2.Sample size: 12 654 interviews with an average of 342 in each state and FCT.  3.The overall margin of error is ±0.87% at 95% confidence level (±1.1% at 99% confidence level).  4.Sample stratification: 3-level geographical stratification according to the official INEC data of voters distribution with random selection of households and respondents.  5.In each state not less than 250 respondents were interviewed, afterwards the data were weighted according to the voters distribution.  6.Dropout of the respondents: only those who have voters card were interviewed.  7.Interviews: native to the state in which they were working or neighboring state with the same dominant language; each one had two training sessions and test task.  8.Figures may not sum to 100% due to rounding up. 