Katsina State governor, Aminu Masari, has declared that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its president candidate,  Muhammadu Buhari, is leading in more than 20 states of the federation. Masari spoke as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has officially announced only Ekiti State as having a complete result for both the presidential and National Assembly polls. The governor told State House correspondents yesterday in Katsina that his assertion was based on the information available to him. He said that the APC would give the president 100 per cent votes in Katsina and that he had received over 80 per cent of the results in the state. The governor stated the Northwest is already in the bag and has also received favourable results from the Northeast, North Central and South West. Masari said: “In Katsina State, we are sure of 100 per cent success for the APC and from the result we have received so far, we have over 80 percent of the results and the margin between us and the PDP is not something they can close. “One can say from what we have on ground now is that the gap is impossible to close.  From the information we are getting nationwide I believe APC is going to win, we are ahead in more than 20 states. “Clearly, APC has taken over the Northwest. In the Northeast we are waiting for the outcome of Taraba State. In the North Central, it’s Plateau and Benue States that we are waiting to see. We are confident of taking Kwara and Kogi States 100 per cent and the Southwest is completely APC. “From the information I have, we have already gotten two senators from Akwa Ibom State. So, if you look at the general performance of APC and if you look at the Southeast, there is no more allocation of votes as votes must count. “I am sure the president will do well in the Southeast, people are saying 30 per cent but I am predicting more than that because in places like Ebonyi, Enugu and even Anambra States where the vice president of the PDP comes from, it is the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) that is holding the away,” he said.   