The Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) had a noteworthy year in 2018 which saw it surpass its set goals for the time period.  The development finance institution had begun official lending activities in October 2017 with N5 billion made available for on-lending to 20,000 MSMEs across the country through three microfinance banks that met stringent criteria for accessing loans: LAPO Microfinance Bank, Fortis Microfinance Bank, and NPF Microfinance bank. Remarkably, the number of eligible financial institutions the bank is doing business with has increased to over 29 which has boosted the options available for small businesses to obtain critical financing.  Significantly, the MSMEs are accessing the disbursed funds through the MFBs and are already producing positive impact across sectors selected for their importance. These include Trade and Commerce, Education, Real Estate Activities and Agriculture.  A key contributing factor to the banks’s good performance the previous year is its reputation for speed and follow through in the execution of its mandate. The DBN’s process ensures that funds reach end borrowers within 72 hours; and that it follows up with these end borrowers to confirm the impact of its loan: e.g. whether the loan has increased revenue, created employment or increased turnover. This signals that a vigorous built-in sustainability framework underpins its strategy and operations.  The results are already obvious. With a year-end target for 20,000 MSMEs to benefit from DBN loans, it exceeded set targets with 35,000 end borrowers accessing finance, representing a 75% growth. The DBN also set a target to disburse N30 billion in 2018, but distributed N31.36 billion, significantly exceeding expectations. Its highly effective credit rating model has resulted in zero non-performing loans at the end of the financial year.  The bank expects to disburse an additional N70 billion in loans to MSMEs in 2019; further deepening penetration for MSMEs finance.  These loans are not sector-specific and simply require the potential to create employment, empower and deliver development impact. Thus far, its successes are attributable to a focus on partnerships, in recognition that solving the problem of accessible finance can only be achieved through strategic collaborations.  The country needs DBN and other DFIs catering to small businesses to succeed. It was born out of Nigeria’s need for a strong development financial institution to expand access to finance for Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSMEs). MSMEs are a critical component of the Nigerian economy with around 37 million MSMEs currently operating across the country, accounting for 50% of GDP and 84% of labour force.  Despite their important contributions and potential for growth, MSMEs continue to face a myriad of challenges. These include poor infrastructure; limited access to markets; technology constraints; unskilled workforce; multiple taxation and an arduous regulatory environment. These challenges have led this large segment of the economy to contribute just 7% of export earnings, with low propensity for development. As numerous as these constraints are, inadequate access to finance remains the most critical for entrepreneurs and the biggest constraint to their economic growth. Currently, less than 5% of these businesses have access to credit in the financial system meaning the existing financing options are inadequate to address the demands of this segment.  The DBN is tackling this challenge by providing wholesale term funding and risk-sharing facilities to eligible Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) through retail intermediaries such as commercial banks, Microfinance Banks (MFBs) and retail Development Finance Institutions; for on-lending to MSMEs.  The DBN also provides partial credit guarantees to eligible financial intermediaries on a market-conforming and fully financially sustainable basis. The DBN loan repayment tenure is flexible (up to 10 years with a moratorium period of up to 18 months) and pricing are set on pragmatic and market driven terms.  The DBN is a multilateral project with initial funding from the World Bank, African Development Bank and German state bank Kfw. The DBN aims to achieve the Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), where financial inclusion ranks high, as well as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Its activities are in synergy with the goals of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of the Federal Government.  The DBN has taken on a mammoth task with challenging goals as research shows that approximately N1.3 trillion of funding is required to improve MSMEs financing, making the current funding available seem paltry in comparison. In addition, the bank set a target to systematically reduce interest rates on loans for MSMEs, which will be tough in the short to medium term as its pricing model is benchmarked to macroeconomic rates. With inflation projected to increase over the next year, and possibly beyond; interest rates on loans may rise; making loans more expensive. Wider economic underperformance has also culminated in a general unwillingness of businesses – both large and MSMEs to take risks with new innovations. This affects their profitability with the potential to impact loan performance. The DBN’s has created a risk strategy that is robust enough to deal with these challenges.  The Managing Director of the DBN Mr. Tony Okpanachi, has focused on ensuring that groups marginalized in terms of access to finance are prioritized. He stated his belief that more women should access DBN loans as they have been doing a great job of effectively managing their small businesses. Women accounted for 73% of end-borrowers of the DBN loans yet received only 27% of the total amounts disbursed. This significant disparity is being used to quickly create and implement policies specifically to increase women’s growth in its disbursement base.  The weakness of MFBs led the CBN to state mid last year that it would revoke 154 microfinance banks’ license over insolvency issues. This led to the increase in minimum capital requirement of Microfinance Banks; immediately for new applications, and by April 2020 for existing banks. This spells good news for micro financing activities because it will mean some of these MFBs become stronger institutions, are better able to scale and become more sustainable. MFBs who previously could not meet the DBN’s criteria for accessing its loans may now find that they can; further expanding access to microfinance for the MSMEs that need it.  This year, the DBN is working to set up a subsidiary to undertake credit guarantees for its participating financial institutions, in a bid to de-risk the MSME sector while establishing a risk sharing arrangement with PFIs up to 50%. The Bank is helping to solve this problem through up-scaling the capacity of PFIs to lend to MSMEs, while also building the capacity of MSMEs to access and use the DBN finance efficiently.  The DBN’s remarkable financial year has set it on a positive trajectory that is set to continue delivering on its much-needed mandate to provide structured and sustainable financing to small businesses in the coming years. Akpan is a policy analyst, wrote from Lagos