The federal government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) could not come to an agreement that would have led to an immediate end to the lingering strike in the university system during a meeting between both camps yesterday. This was revealed by the minister of labour and employment, Sen Chris Ngige, after a closed door meeting with the union yesterday in Abuja. He said, “The meeting was protracted, but the good news is that we have gotten to the end of the tunnel. We met them half way and we have finished the grey areas. “And on the issue of N50 billion, we have offered what we have. We do not have N50 billion and we cannot do N50 billion, but we have offered them something reasonable. So they have to take it back, and go and present to their members.” Ngige, however, expressed hope that students would return to school soon, saying, “We will know when they will go back by Thursday”. On his part, the ASUU president, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi,  said the meeting had been adjourned to February 7. “So far, on the level of progress made so far, I cannot tell you that now until I tell my members. It is the feedback of the last meeting we came to present to government today. “But right now, we have a new set of information that we have to go and present to our members. Until we tell our members, we cannot tell you,” he said. Ogunyemi, however, noted that progress had been in the ongoing negotiations. “We are making progress, and the progress we are making is for everybody’s interest and stakeholders will benefit at the end of the day. “We will be meeting on Thursday, after which we will address the press. “We have trashed all areas, so the progress we have made must first be related to our members. So, until we tell them and they tell us what to do, that is only when we can relate to the press. The meeting adjourned till Thursday,” he said. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that the strike commenced on November 5, 2018. The lecturers are demanding the implementation of some agreements with the federal government since November 2009, of which a major demand is the implementation of university revitalisation fund. 