Ahead of the February 16 Presidential and National Assembly elections,  a political group, Forward With Buhari (FWB), has said the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari will win in over 30 states. The  secretary, FWB, Dr. Kayode Ajulo who gave the assurance in an interaction with journalists in Abuja at the weekend, said his predictions was based on well-researched information gathered on the field ahead of the 2019 general elections. Dr Ajulo who is also a human rights lawyer, had earlier explained that the group’s  formation was aimed at checkmating vote rigging across the nation in the 2019 presidential elections, adding that President Buhari’s main challenger, Atiku Abubakar will not win even in his State, Adamawa. When asked about how many votes the group intends to garner for the incumbent president, Ajulo said: “We intend to give Buhari maximum votes, what distinguishes us is that as an Independent Campaign Group, our members cut across the various parties and interest groups and with the coordination of the Governors as inspired by Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State, we have penetrated all the 36 States, 774 Local Governments, 8, 809 Wards, and the entire 119, 973 polling units in Nigeria. “Our formulae are solid, the governors, political and community leaders hold the ace in this election and we will back them to make the re-election a success. “We have also found out too, although I won’t like to reveal most of our strategies, as only a retard Army General that doesn’t understand his commission would reveal his strategy. We want to ensure that those who have not been voting are encouraged to vote, and in that way discourage voter apathy. “In most of the previous general election only 30-35 per cent of the registered voters who have voters cards voted. “Where are the other 70 per cent or there about? It is our duty to look for them, go for them and ensure that they vote.” The astute legal practitioner who was criticized in some quarters for rooting for President Buhari also clarified his status in the ruling party and his main objectives for supporting Mr. President in the forthcoming polls. “Moreover, I am not a member of APC. As you know, I voluntarily resigned as National Secretary of Labour Party and I’m yet to declare for APC, this I can’t do alone, I can’t join any party under the table and anytime I’m ready, I won’t be alone but with all those that believe in me. It would be done with pomp and pageantry such occasion deserves. “But when it comes to this Project to re-elect Buhari, I consider myself as No. 1 of those behind him. That really raises one fundamental revelation, and that is for you to know that the number of people rooting and agitating that Buhari should be re-elected as President are more than the members of APC. Please do your research,” Ajulo said. “Forward With Buhari is a deliberate composition of professionals, Politicians, unionists, civil societies and dynamic young people, I’m from Labour background, it’s solidarity themed, hence Forward With Buhari as we use to say, Forward For Ever! Our name is to show our determination,” he added. 