President Muhammadu Buhari, the nation’s service chiefs and some governors from crisis-ridden states yesterday, held a crucial security meeting at the presidential villa, Abuja. Among the governors, who attended the meeting, which focused on security arrangements for the rescheduled general elections were Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State and Kashim Shettima of Borno State. The acting inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, gave an insight into the parley, when he told State House correspondents that the meeting took far-reaching decisions on the current security situation in the country. Adamu said:  “Today (yesterday), members of the security and intelligence community came and briefed Mr. President on the security situation in the country. “We deliberated on the consequences and came up with the resolve to further provide adequate security within the country so that the electorate will come out and cast their votes without any fear of molestation. “Every Nigerian is encouraged to come out on the election day and cast his or her vote without any fear of molestation. The security personnel are ready and prepared to protect everybody,” he said. The IGP warned that ballot snatching, vote-buying, and thuggery would not be condoned by the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) on election days. He said that anyone planning to be used as a thug during the polls would regret it. Adamu reiterated the president’s earlier statement that anybody that feels that he can come out and disrupt the process should have a rethink because it would not be allowed. According to him, every Nigerian is encouraged to come out on election day and cast his or her vote without any fear of molestation. “Anybody that feels that he can come out and disrupt process should have a rethink because that situation will not be allowed. If you plan and allow yourself to be used as touts, whatever happens to you, you will take it. “Ballot snatching, vote-buying, thuggery will never be allowed; anybody that is planning to snatch ballot boxes or planning to be used as a thug, will have his or herself to blame on the election day. So, you better don’t allow yourself to be used,” Adamu warned.