Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday narrowly survived another air crash after the helicopter carrying him and his entourage crash-landed at the Kabbah Township Stadium, Kogi State. It was gathered that apart from the vice president, there were 11 other people on board the aircraft, including the minister of state for Labour and Productivity, Prof Stephen Ocheni, senior presidential aides, security officials and the crew. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that this would not be the first time the vice president has survived such an accident. On June 7, 2018 Osinbajo had also narrowly escaped an air crash when the helicopter that was to convey him from the Nigeria Customs Command and Staff College, Gwagwalada, in Abuja, was forced to land just seconds after take-off. Osinbajo was in the school for the graduation ceremony of Senior Division Course 1 /2018 participants . The chopper had earlier taken the vice president to the college for the ceremony. It was gathered that the chopper could not ascend beyond tree level before it emitted thick smoke and landed on the same spot few seconds after takeoff. Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadique Abubakar, had left the venue with their respective convoys, when the incident happened. Osinbajo had to leave the college by road. In yesterday’s incident, Osinbajo was said to have narrowly escaped unhurt after the propeller of the helicopter suddenly pulled off at the Kabba Township Stadium in Kogi State. According to eyewitness account, the vice president’s helicopter just managed to land at the Kabbah township stadium at about 2:22pm before the propeller of the helicopter suddenly pulled off and went hurtling in the air to the chagrin of party faithful who had gathered to welcome him. Luckily, no one was hurt. Although the remote cause of this accident was not known by the time of going to press, however, it was gathered that the pilot of the helicopter might have found it difficult to land due to the dusty terrain of the stadium. …VP Osinbajo continues campaign despite crash Meanwhile, Vice President Yemi Osibanjo yesterday continued with his campaign activities in Kogi State after surviving a helicopter crash. LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt that immediately the incident happened, the vice president was quickly evacuated from the scene of the incident into a waiting vehicle and was thereafter driven in a convoy along with other political office holders to the palace of Obaro of Kabba where he paid a courtesy call. Prof Osinbajo later addressed party supporters at St Augustine’s College, Kabba, where the crowd chanted praises to God for his survival. The vice president was billed to launch the Trader-moni empowerment programme in Kabba and thereafter visit Okene in Central Senatorial District and Idah in the Eastern axis before returning to Abuja. Later, the Kogi State government declared that Osinbajo was safe and had continued with his assignment in the state, according to a statement by the chief press secretary to Governor Yahaya Bello, Mr Onogwu Muhammed. “The Kogi State government wishes to announce that the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, is safe. “This followed the challenge experienced during the landing of his helicopter at about 1:30pm today (yesterday) in Kabba, Kogi State. “The VP and his campaign team however continued with their visit to the state and are currently engaging the people of Kogi West Senatorial district at the Kabba township stadium,” Mohammed said.  …Saraki, Dogara, Atiku Express Relief Prominent Nigerians have expressed relief at Vice President Osinbajo’s survival of the chopper crash, including Senate President Bukola Saraki, Speaker Yakubu Dogara, and the governors of Kogi, Bayelsa, Gombe and Kebbi among others. There were messages of felicitation from the ruling APC and the opposition PDP and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. The Senate President Bukola Saraki, in his reaction on Facebook said, “I join all Nigerians in thanking Almighty God for sparing the life of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who survived a helicopter crash over Kabba, Kogi State today (yesterday).” On his part, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara called on relevant authorities to conduct due diligence checks on all government owned aircraft to prevent a re-occurrence. In a tweeter post on his verified twitter handle, Dogara said, “I join His Excellency, Vice President Prof Yemi Osinbajo in thanking the Almighty God for saving him and his team from any fatality in the unfortunate incident in Kogi State. I urge relevant authorities to conduct due diligence checks on all govt owned aircraft to prevent a re-occurrence. The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday expressed joy at the news of the safety of Vice President Osinbajo following his helicopter crash in Kogi State. In his reaction to the incident on his Facebook page, Atiku said, “Dear Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo, I just received news of the crash of your helicopter in Kabba, Kogi State. I am happy to note, however, that all is well with you and your delegation.” …Osinbajo, A Man of Grace – Kogi Gov On his part, the Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, has thanked God for saving the life of the vice president and those of his crew members. While also thanking Nigerians for their concern over the incident, Governor Bello described the vice president as a man of Grace with a strong character for his insistence on continuing his engagement with Kogites. He urged Nigerians to continue to pray for Mr President and his deputy, even as he expressed optimism that their would be no casualties before, during and after the next general elections. …I’m Safe, Sound, Osinbajo Tells Nigerians Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has expressed his gratitude to Nigerians for their concern following the helicopter crash incident yesterday in Kabba, Kogi State. According to a statement by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, the helicopter carrying the vice president crash-landed, but that everyone on board was safe. Prof. Osinbajo is now in Kabba after the incident and continuing his engagements in the state, engaging the people on the Next Level plan of the Buhari administration, he added. “We are safe and sound. Thank you to everyone who has expressed concern, and thank you to the crew who managed the situation well. We believe that God will continue to keep us and Nigeria safe even as we go higher. We continue Next Level engagements in Kabba, Kogi State,” the vice president said. Speaking at the Obaro of Kabba’s Palace, his first stop in his ongoing visit to Kogi State, Prof. Osinbajo expressed gratitude to God for saving them from the chopper crash. “We are extremely grateful to the Lord for preserving our lives from the incident that just happened. Everyone is safe and no one is maimed. God has kept us safe and alive, delivered us from death so we can do more for our people and country.” Explaining further, Akande said: “The vice president departed Abuja around 1pm today (yesterday) on a chopper ride to Kogi State in continuation of the Family Chats & Next Level engagements. “Prof. Osinbajo headed first to Kabba, and while landing at the Kabba Stadium, the Helicopter suddenly skidded sideways until it halted on its side few metres away from the intended resting spot. “Alongside VP Osinbajo, the Minister of State for Labour and Productivity, Prof. Stephen Ocheni, senior presidential aides, security officials and the crew were on board; there were a total of 12 people on board. Everyone came out safely after the incident. “We are grateful to God for his protection and safety, and we thank the crew and security personnel for their prompt response and service. We are also grateful for the tremendous expressions of concern and affection, as well as prayers from all. “As is procedural, a full investigation into the causes of the incident would be conducted by aviation authorities. The vice president is continuing the planned engagements in Kogi State as scheduled.”  …PDP Expresses shock, calls for probe The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed shock over the crash of the helicopter carrying Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in Kabba, Kogi State, yesterday. The PDP also thanked God for the safety of Vice President Osinbajo, members of his entourage and the crew. The national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement, however, “called for a thorough investigation into the traumatic incident,” adding that “the safety of our leaders, and of course, all Nigerians, must be guaranteed, especially at this critical time.” The PDP urged “all Nigerians irrespective of creed, ethnicity and political affiliation to continue to pray for God’s continued intervention in our national life.”  …APC Prays For Nation’s Leaders On its part, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has prayed for the continued safety of the nation’s leaders following the helicopter crash involving Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and his aides in Kabba, Kogi State, yesterday. The party, however, thanked God for saving the vice president and the aides with him. In a statement by the APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party said: “We thank God our vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, is safe and sound along with his aides following his involvement in a helicopter accident which occurred in Kabba, Kogi State while undertaking the All Progressives Congress #NextLevelEngagements ahead of the #2019Elections. “The party prays for continuous safety of our leaders and general progress of our great country. “  …National tragedy averted – Dickson Osinbajo’s Copter Crash: GOV Dickson urges Nigerians to Thank God for averting National Tragedy On his part, the governor of Bayelsa State, Henry Seriake Dickson, has urged Nigerians to thank God for sparing the lives of the Prof Osinbajo and other passengers in the helicopter that crash-landed in Kabba, Kogi State, yesterday. He said that the citizenry should be grateful to the Almighty God for preventing what would have been a major national tragedy, especially at this critical period of heightened political activities in the country. In a statement by his special adviser on media relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, the governor urged Nigerians to see themselves as members of a solid and united family irrespective of political differences and platforms. He also said that Nigerians should exploit moments such as the helicopter incident to assert their humanity. “I have heard about the crash-landing of the helicopter that was conveying the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, and other passengers at Kabba, Kogi State. “I join Nigerians to thank the Almighty God for this great deliverance and the prevention of a tragedy that would have plunged this nation into mourning at this critical time. “We should all thank God for sparing the lives of the vice president, the other passengers and the crew for his mercies,” he said.