Earnings from non-oil exports increased significantly year-on-year and month-on-month. The Centre for the Study of Economies of Africa (SCEA) noted in its latest report on Nigeria Economic Update published yesterday. The report noted that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) records non-oil export earnings at $382.24 million in October 2018, indicating a rise of 46 per cent from the previous month’s N262.35 million and 69 per cent from the previous year’s (October 2017) N225.78 million. According to the report, improvements in proceeds from agricultural products as well as mineral exports impacted the total export earnings – both accounting for 13 per cent and 59 per cent respectively. “The improved mineral exports followed important tractions in the sector: at the state level, Ebonyi State launched the combined lead, steel and copper processing plant; and at the federal level, the government renewed commitments to incentivise non-oil exporters via the Export Expansion Grant (EEG) scheme. “With recent strides made in the mining sector such as issuing the first gold refining license, mineral exports and by extension non-oil exports, are expected to continue rising.” The report however advised that the proposed Solid Minerals Development Fund should be swiftly established to improve the performance of the sector. Commenting on the stock market , the report noted that ahead of the 2019 elections, the stock market activities have been affected by varied political uncertainties. For the week under review, the stock market hit a record low (since May 2017) as market indices fell significantly: ASI shed 808.2 points (2.64 per cent) to close at 29,830.7 points, and market capitalisation also fell by 2.64 percent to N11.4 trillion. It further observed that the week witnessed low volume of stocks traded amid sell position of 64 per cent as against buy volume of 36 per cent. “Selloffs are likely to persist on account of mounting political uncertainty. A one-off positive trigger or market information, such as positive company earnings, may be able to boost investor appetite in the short term until after the elections,” the report added.