The Kaduna state governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, on Wednesday, flagged off  the reconstruction of the burnt Kasuwan Magani market as part of his administration’s programme to promote equality of opportunity and economic development in the communities. Speaking at the event, el-Rufai said the new Kasuwan Magani market will have 2024 shops, adding that the market will include open stalls, meat dressing slabs and abattoirs. The governor explained further that the facilities in the market will include police post, clinic and fire service area in compliance with health, safety and environment regulatory requirements for a model market. He said the market will also enjoy electricity and water supply, adding that the construction is expected to be completed in 10 months at the cost of N2.78bn. El-Rufai said: “Contentions over the location of markets and access to them have been implicated in the legacy of violence that has blighted some of our communities. The Kaduna State Government is aware that certain resentments driven by poverty and a sense of inequality have manifested in violent episodes that have started in and around markets, often targeting the economic assets of other citizens. Most infamous is the Zangon-Kataf crisis of 1992, but there are many more, including Zonkwa, Kafanchan and the recent outrages in Kasuwan Magani” “Therefore, the Kaduna State Government’s post-conflict assessment after the October 2018 crisis in Kasuwan Magani included a resolve to address the question of markets. As a government committed to promoting equality of opportunity, we announced in October 2018 a plan to promote prosperity in places impacted by conflict by rebuilding their markets” The governor stressed: “The goal is to ensure that the new markets will accommodate the previous shop owners, and other persons who are interested in and are able to own shops. Perceptions that there are insurmountable barriers to securing trading places in markets will be erased in the new, expanded markets. The designs for these markets will also include space to host police formations. The market in Kafanchan was already being rebuilt as at the time of that announcement. But we notified the public that the market reconstruction and upgrade programme shall be extended to the overstretched or destroyed markets in places such as Zonkwa, Kasuwan Magani and other locations in the State” “Today’s event marks another significant day in our quest by the Kaduna State Government to advance the cause of peace on many fronts. We flag-off the reconstruction of the burnt Kasuwan Magani market as part of our programme to promote equality of opportunity and economic development in our communities. “The new Kasuwan Magani market will have 2024 shops. This will include open stalls, meat dressing slabs and abattoirs. Facilities will include a police post, a clinic and fire service area in compliance with Health, Safety and Environment regulatory requirements for a model market. The market will also enjoy electricity and water supply. El-Rufai added: “Interested buyers of stalls in the market will be supported with access to mortgage finance. Through the Kaduna State Markets Development and Management Company, government is working with Sterling Bank to provide a mortgage facility at 9% interest rate. Specific details of the downpayment expected from interested persons who wish to access the mortgage facility will be announced by the bank and the market company. “The markets development programme will include the construction of a grain market in Giwa, and the reconstruction of markets in Zonkwa, Gonin-Gora, Kawo, Kudenda. The sprawling Sheik Abubakar Gumi market is scheduled for remodelling to improve its facilities and enhance the experience for shoppers and owners. “I appeal to all our communities to work for peace and harmony. Economic development requires an atmosphere of concord in which everyone feels safe to pursue their livelihoods. Let us defeat poverty together and build communities of prosperity” the governor said. Earlier, Managing Director, Kaduna State Market Development and Management Company Limited, Hafiz Bayero, said when completed the market will boost the economic activities of the area. 