It was rough start for Senator Ishaku Elisha Cliff Abbo in the 9th Senate yesterday as protest mounted against his alleged assault of a nursing mother in May this year. Senator Abbo was seen in a video clip assaulting a woman in a sex toy shop. The video went viral in the social media, which prompted Nigerians across board to demand for his prosecution. Both the Senate and the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday took steps to probe the veracity of the video. Faced with pressure from his political mentors and his political platform, the senator yesterday wept and apologised for his action. This came after the IGP ordered a comprehensive investigation into the circumstances surrounding the purported assault. Force spokesman, Mr. Frank Mba, said in a statement that the IGP had directed the commissioner of police for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) command, Mr. Bala Ciroma, to provide a personal and round-the-clock supervision of every facet of the investigation, including the forensic analysis of the video currently in circulation as well as the actions/inactions of the policeman seen in the video footage. While assuring the citizens of utmost professionalism by the police in the handling of the matter, Ciroma promised that the Force would ensure that justice is manifestly done in the case irrespective of whose ox is gored. Already, Ciroma has established contact with the victim of the assault and has commenced investigation into the case. The IGP thanked Nigerians for their massive show of empathy and concern for the rights of their fellow citizen and urged continuous citizens’ engagement in the tackling the wider challenges of security in the country. The Senate also set up a seven-member panel to investigate the allegation of assault on the woman on May 11, 2019 in Abuja by Senator Abbo representing Adamawa North Senatorial District. The members are Senators Sam Egwu, Oluremi Tinubu, Stella Oduah, Matthew Urhogide, Dauda Aliru Jika, Sani Musa and Danladi Sankara. The setting up of the panel was consequent upon full deliberation on a point of order raised by Senator Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna Central) where he called the attention of the Senate to a video footage that went viral on the social media on Tuesday in which Senator Abbo was seen assaulting a lady. Uba had called for immediate sanction on Abbo but after the Intervention of Senators Opeyemi Bamidele, Enyinnaya Abaribe, and Yahaya Abdullahi, the Senate resolved to investigate the matter and give Abbo fair hearing. The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, said that in as much as the Senate would be responsive and responsible and not condone violence, it would be fair to both sides in the matter. The panel has two weeks to submit its report. Abbo, who defeated the respected Senator Binta Garba, to emerge as the winner of the Adamawa North senatorial district, was seen assaulting the woman in a video posted by Premium Times The assault, which reportedly occurred on May 11, 2019, was done in the presence of an armed policeman who rather than assist the victim, arrested her. Abbo, who is the youngest senator in the country, had entered the shop around 6pm on May 11, a Saturday. The senator walked in with three young women to buy adult toys. But shortly after they began shopping for the toys, one of the three girls brought in by Abbo started throwing up. She vomited multiple times, prompting the shop owner to remark that the woman should have vomited outside and not inside her shop, especially since she was not a child. This allegedly angered the lawmaker, who thereafter rained several slaps on the woman.  Sen Abbo Weeps, Apologises In a show of remorse, Senator Abbo yesterday wept and apologised to the family of the lady he slapped at the asked store. He made the apology after meeting with the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the party’s headquarters in Abuja. Abbo, who sought forgiveness before God and all those who felt offended by his action, claimed that he had never been associated with such action. The lawmaker, who broke down in tears in the course of his press conference, said that his family and religious upbringing do not give approval for his conduct as a leader. He said: “It is with a deep sense of remorse and responsibility that I, Senator Ishaku Abbo (SlA) profoundly apologise to all Nigerians, the Senate, the PDP, my family, friends as well as our mothers – the Nigerian women. “I personally apologise to Bibra and her family for my action towards her, which has brought immense discomfort in our body polity. “l have never been known or associated with such actions in the past. Regardless of what transpired prior to my expression of anger, I am sincerely sorry and plead that all men and women of good conscience should have the heart to forgive me. To err is human, to forgive is divine. “To the Church of God everywhere in the world, I am sorry. As an Ambassador of Christ, much is expected of me. My family and religious upbringing do not give approval to such conduct and for this, as a leader, I seek forgiveness before God and all those who feel offended by my action. “Indeed, this episode has taught me a very great lesson both as a private citizen and a public officer, particularly as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria upon whom public confidence is bestowed. “Finally, I assure Nigerians, especially the people of Adamawa North of my good conduct at all times. Thank you and God bless.”  Atiku Advises Senator To Apologise Prior to his apology, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, had advised Abbo to publicly apologise for his action. Atiku in a tweet, @atiku, yesterday urged the PDP lawmaker to voluntarily go to the police and show good example expected of a young leader. He said that he had seen the alleged assault video involving Abbo and described it as sad and inexcusable. “I know the senator quite well. But the law is clear and leaders must lead by example. I advise him to publicly apologise, voluntarily go to the police and show a good example expected of a young leader. “I also call on our party, the PDP to take necessary disciplinary action and the Nigeria Police Force to ensure the law takes its full course,’’ Atiku said. The PDP leadership also summoned Abbo over the incident. The opposition party in a statement said that as a law-abiding and upstanding organisation, it detests and completely condemn such act of lawlessness and callousness as exhibited in the video and would therefore never condone it. The statement signed by the PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that “our party is also shocked that the harmless victim of the unprovoked assault is said to be a nursing mother, who ought to be protected. “Though this is a personal conduct of an individual which has no bearing with the culture of our party, the PDP however holds that no responsible person will condone such an attitude. “In the light of this, the National Working Committee (NWC) has commenced investigation into the matter and summons Senator Elisha Abbo in line with the provisions of the constitution of the PDP and code of conduct of our members,” is said. The party further said that it had taken note of the immediate action taken by the Senate over the matter. “The PDP, at all levels of engagement, is reputed for her utmost respect and commitment towards the rights, safety and wellbeing of our citizens, particularly our women and cannot tolerate any callous assault on any Nigerian. “The PDP therefore assures Nigerians that it will always stand on the side of justice and will never spare a thought in taking action on any of its members found wanting, particularly those elected or appointed into public offices,” it said. 