President Muhammadu Buhari has revisited the conduct of the 2019 general elections and declared that without any contradiction, the results truly reflected the will of Nigerians. For giving him their mandate for a second term in office, the president promised not to disappoint the people for making a wise choice at the polls. The president spoke yesterday when he received the Buhari Support Group Centre led by the director-general, Alhaji Umaru Dembo, at the State House, Abuja. He said that his administration would serve honestly and genuinely, with a focus on unleashing the human and natural potential of the country for growth. His media aide, Mr. Femi Adesina, who issued a statement on the visit, quoted the president as saying: “The 2019 elections are behind us. Nigerians have spoken, and they have spoken loudly in our favour. It is now time to serve them, and serve well. We will not fail. “We will serve honestly, genuinely, and with our heart and might. Our country has oscillated for too long at the level of promises and potentialities. It is now time to explore and exploit the potential for the good of all Nigerians, particularly the ordinary people. It shall be accomplished,’’ he said. The president commended members of the Buhari Support Group Centre for their steadfastness and assured them of inclusiveness in pursuing the goal of good governance for the country. He said: “This group is composed of people who have identified with me since I threw my political hat into the ring in 2002. And they have stood with me through thick and thin, abiding with me in the electoral and legal processes of 2003, 2007, 2011, till God gave us victory in 2015, and also 2019. “Many more people joined us along the line, and the centre expands by the day. I salute your faithfulness, your persistency, and your ruggedness. It never ceases to amaze me that you have kept faith, even when I have not given you much, or even anything, in return,’’ he added. Buhari said the group’s interest in the growth and development of the country through good and honest governance, and not personal gains or interests, would be remembered by posterity. In his remarks, Dembo assured the president of the continuous support of his members for the actualisation of his mandate for Nigerians, noting that the centre had started work on institutionalising the philosophy of “Buharism’’. He said that the centre would be renamed Buharism Centre in order to share the political vision and philosophy of the president. …Next Level Requires Formidable Team Also yesterday, Buhari said that he needs a formidable team to deliver his “Next Level” agenda to Nigerians. The president told members of the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) led by the chairman, Omoniyi Akinsiju, at the presidential villa, Abuja that he remains committed to ending the security challenges facing the country and to make it a peaceful and prosperous. He said that as a team they have fought a good fight and won the race in the 2019 general elections. According to him, “our government continues to grow in strength and will lay a firm foundation for future generations. “While there will be those who are determined to drag us back to the bad old days, your visit is timely. It is exactly a month ago that I was sworn in for a second term in office. The task ahead for the four years will require a formidable team,” he said. The president described the BMO as a key information management asset to his administration, adding that “your efforts have been commendable. I cannot thank you enough for your sacrifices during the first part of our journey. “We have just come off rigorous campaigns during which I visited all the 36 states of the federation campaigning, seeking the votes of Nigerians and telling them what we have done in the last four years. “I campaigned on three simple premises not different from those of 2015: To tackle insecurity, promote economic diversification and to fight corruption. Fulfilling these three promises are fundamental to taking Nigeria to the next level. “I assure you that I am resolute in fulfilling these promises and will leave Nigeria a far better place than when we came. It is not an easy job to sell the administration’s services, we are doing unpopular things and facing powerful individuals and taking on vested interests who are accustomed to the corrupt era. But we must do things the right way if we promised change then we must deliver it. This is regardless of whose interest is touched. There must be a manifest departure from the old order. “We are making significant progress and these are evident for all to see. Despite attempts by enemies to twist and bend facts, most Nigerians know the truth,” he stated. Earlier, Akinsiju said the organisation regularly commissions the writing and publishing of newspaper opinion articles and press statements on the federal government’s programmes and clarify on socio-economic and political issues being undertaken by the administration. According to him, members have also appeared regularly on television and radio to promote and defend the administration while maintaining an active presence on the social media, engaging on issues affecting the president and his administration. Police Arrest 58 High Profile Electoral Offenders Still on the 2019 general elections, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) yesterday said that it made 58 high profile arrests for electoral offences during the exercise. Giving a breakdown of the arrest, the police said that 25 were held during the presidential and National Assembly elections while 17 were caught during the gubernatorial contest. Another 14 were held during the conduct of the state assemblies and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) councils’ elections. The inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, disclosed this at a meeting of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) on the review of the 2019 general elections. Adamu said that of the 58 high profile arrests, the police have concluded investigations on 39 persons and charged them to court while 19 are still pending. He commended other security agencies, particularly the military for the cooperation given to the police and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) during the elections. The IGP, who was represented by the deputy inspector-general DIG, Operations), Abdulmajid Ali, said that the ICCES forum offered an avenue for official interaction at strategic level for the relevant agencies to exchange professional ideas on electoral duties and functions. He said that the meeting came at the right time, particularly when security agencies were preparing for the Bayelsa and Kogi States’ governorship elections and pledged to put more efforts in ensuring that the forthcoming governorship polls would be free and fair, and credible. “There is no gain saying that the experiences of the last general elections and the relationship with INEC and the police and other security agencies, were quite cordial. Critical issues must be touched; particularly we must talk on relationship between security agencies and other stakeholders, the effectiveness and impacts of electoral risk assessment and the response by the security agencies,” he said. INEC Renews Clamour For Electoral Offences Tribunal In his remarks at the event, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, renewed the commission’s call for the establishment of an Electoral Offences Tribunal. He also requested for the case files of offenders to enable the commission commence their prosecution. Yakubu said: “I am happy to note that the NPF made several arrests of alleged electoral offenders during the general elections. We have since requested the police to avail us of the case files so that we can initiate their immediate prosecution. “We shall work with the National Assembly to ensure the passage of a private members’ bill sponsored in the Senate by the former chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC, Senator Abubakar Kyari and in the House of Representatives by Hon. Francis Charles Uduyok. “Their effort was reinforced by an executive bill submitted to the National Assembly arising from the report of the Ken Nnamani Committee on Electoral Reform. The truth is that democracy and credible elections will be deepened where electoral offenders are swiftly prosecuted,” Yakubu said.