Digital industrial company, GE Nigeria has collaborated with  non-profit organisation – United for Kids Foundation (UKF)  to set up a Mobile Library that will be used to run a literacy development programme called ‘Read To Me’ for primary school pupils in Lagos State. The Read-To-Me mobile library programme has commenced in four primary schools in the Akowonjo area of Alimosho Local Government, Lagos. Presented in partnership with the United for Kids Foundation (UKF), the Mobile Library, according to GE, is the first of many to come and will teach pupils to read correctly and improve their literacy levels. During the Mobile Library launch at Akowonjo Primary School, Lagos, recently, chief communications & public affairs officer, GE Africa, Patricia Obozuwa explained that the idea for GE to sponsor the Mobile Library was borne out of the interactions and experiences GE has had from years of partnering with the United for Kids Foundation to run the Read-To-Me program in conventional libraries set up in other government primary schools across Lagos State. This initiative is ingenious because the library is mobile library, which means it can serve several schools simultaneously” she added. Obozuwa explained that this project is one of many that GE has supported as part of its continent-wide Corporate Social Responsibility platform, GE Kujenga. “GE Kujenga focuses on empowering people by building valuable skills, equipping communities with new tools and technology and elevating innovative ideas that are helping solve Africa’s challenges.  Not many skills are as valuable for the child as the ability to read. This program fits naturally into the ‘empower’ bucket of GE Kujenga,” she said. Obozuwa further explained that the company, through its GE Volunteer Programme, gets employees together not only to pool funds to support worthy causes but also to spend time and effort volunteering on various projects that help bring about greater good in the society. Speaking on the journey so far, Aameenah Yunus-Ali, programmes manager for UKF said the foundation has been running the Read-To-Me literacy programme for kids in various schools for eight years. It decided to use primary schools in Alimosho Local Government Area as pioneers for the Mobile Library because of its large population of primary school children and because it is easily accessible.