Supporters and critics of the disputed Ruga settlement programme for herdsmen across Nigeria have welcomed the federal government’s suspension of the scheme . Among the eminent Nigerians and interest groups which commended the action of the federal government are Miyetti Allah Kauta Hore, the umbrella body of the Fulani ethnic group, whose members would have been the major beneficiaries of the policy; Afenifere, Ohanaeze, state governors, lawyers, politicians and some youth groups. Both Afenifere and Ohanaeze had kicked against it while the Yoruba Elders’ Council (YCE) declared the policy dead on arrival in the South West zone. The leadership of Miyetti Allah said that the suspension of the scheme was a blessing in disguise because several communities in some part of the country were already asking their members to leave their lands because of the policy. The news of the suspension of the programme was broken yesterday by the Ebonyi State governor and chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC) Committee on Herders/Farmers’ Crisis, Dave Umahi. He said that the Ruga was suspended because it was inconsistent with the National Economic Council (NEC) approved National Livestock Transformation Plan. Reacting to the outrage that greeted the commencement of Ruga settlement programme in 12 states under the pilot phase, the presidency had on Sunday said that the initiative was meant to address the frequent farmers/herders violent clashes. In a statement issued by the senior special assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, the Presidency explained that the policy would be beneficial to all animal rearers and not just the nomadic Fulani cattle breeders as being perceived. On Monday, the Office of the Vice President issued a disclaimer on the project, saying that it had nothing to do with the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) approved by NEC under its supervision. The controversy heightened when the governor of Plateau State and chairman of the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF), Simon Lalong stated on Monday that the Ruga policy was the same as the NLTP. But Governor Umahi stated after a meeting of the committee held yesterday in the office of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the presidential villa, Abuja that the Ruga programme was inconsistent to the extent that it did not incorporate the rehabilitation of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who had been victims of the crisis as well as the development of ranches in states that were willing. The meeting was attended by Osinbajo and the governors of Kebbi and Plateau States. Umahi said: “We the NEC Committee on Farmers/Herders’ Crisis under the chairmanship of Mr. Vice President met today to deliberate on the approved programme of National Economic Council (NEC) and the federal government, tagged: “The National Livestock Transformation Programme.” “We are aware that today that Mr. President has suspended the implementation of Ruga programme, initiated and being implemented by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, because it is not consistent with the NEC and federal government approved National Livestock Transformation Plan which has programmes of rehabilitation for IDPs, resulting from the crisis and also the development of ranches in any willing state of the federation. The clause is willing state of the federation. “The beauty of the National Livestock Transformation Plan is that what NEC and FG approved is a voluntary programme to all the 36 states which may like to participate. So, it is not compulsory, it is for any state that is willing to key into it. “Any state that is interested in this programme is required to bring up a development plan that is geared towards the implementation in line with our own programme here that is unique to the state based on the challenges on hand. That’s the decision of this committee,” he said.  Ruga Settlements Was A Curse To Fulani – Miyetti Allah In a swift reaction to the new development, Miyetti Allah said that the proposed Ruga settlement scheme was a curse to them because it brought more hatred to the Fulani ethnic group. The group said that there was no single Fulani family in the country that does not have Ruga and claimed that they were not consulted on the project. It asserted that the Ruga project had done more damage than good, especially in the southern part of the country. In an interview with LEADERSHIP yesterday, the national president of Miyetti Allah Kauta Hore, Abdullahi Bodejo, said that they were in support of the federal government’s suspension of the Ruga scheme because neither the group nor their traditional rulers were consulted on the issue. Bodejo said that the only policy of government that would help the Fulani cause in Nigeria is the provision of facilities in grazing reserves. He said: “We don’t need Ruga settlements. Every Fulani man in Nigeria has a Ruga. The entire scheme is political because even the Fulani leaders and traditional rulers were not consulted. “What we need is a return to our grazing areas. Facilities should be provided in them so that the herders can graze their cattle because the Ruga issue is political and does not help the Fulanis in the country,” Bodejo said. According to him, “we support him (the president) because the programme was not helpful to us. How do you start a programme that a Fulani man with over 500 cows is not aware of? The Fulanis in the southern part of the country were living peacefully with their neighbours for many years but when this issue of Ruga started, many of them were chased out. There was distrust. That is not good. All the traditional rulers in the North and we the leaders of the Fulanis were not aware of the Ruga programme and we were not consulted. Anything that will make our cows to be destroyed is not good and should not be supported,” Bodejo stated.  Afenifere, Ohanaeze, Ortom Commends FG Similarly, a chieftain of Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, Senator Femi Okunronmu, commended the federal government for suspending the Ruga project. Okunronmu told LEADERSHIP in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital that the action clearly indicated that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government was ready to listen to the hues and cries of Nigerians in taking decisions that have direct bearing on their lives. He said: “It is a good idea that the federal government under Muhammadu Buhari is suspending the Ruga project which several eminent Nigerians have spoken against and condemned. “By this, President Buhari has shown that he will listen to the cries of Nigerians and we are happy about that.” The Afenifere chieftain, however, called on the president not to only suspend the project, but also ensure that he disarm all the radical herdsmen who have been terrorising Nigerians across the country. “It is not only enough for the federal government to just suspend the Ruga project, President Buhari must ensure that he evolves a way of changing the psyche of those radical herdsmen and also disarm them. This is the only way to ensuring that the mayhem and agony which they have been causing Nigerians stop finally,” he said. Also, the apex Igbo cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, has commended the federal government for suspending the establishment of Ruga settlements in the country. In a statement issued by the special adviser on Media and Publicity to the group‘s president-general, Chief Emeka Attamah, he said that it was heartwarming to observe that for the first time the current leadership at the federal level deferred to people’s opinion on public issues He added that the issues surrounding the suspended scheme indicated the importance of consulting the people before taking certain decisions that would affect them. Attamah said: “Ohanaeze Ndigbo is as worried about the restoration of peace between farmers and herders in the country as the federal government and believes that the ultimate solution to it is to embrace ranching. “The federal government should take immediate measures to disarm the Ak-47 trotting herders throughout the country,” he said. Ohanaeze further asked the government to carry out an audit of foreigners in the country and ascertain those with genuine entry papers, deport those illegally in the country as well as ensure that the country’s borders are properly controlled and manned to avert further massive infiltration. “As a process towards healing the present wounds and uniting the country, adequate compensation should be paid to relations of victims of the unwarranted killings in the country in recent times,” Ohanaeze. Relatedly, Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, who has fiercely protested against the project, commended President Buhari for heeding to the cries of the people by putting the policy on hold. The governor said that the decision to suspend the programme showed that the president had heard the voices of majority of Nigerians on the matter. “The rejection of the Ruga settlement model by majority of Nigerians was not personal but rather a struggle by the people of the country against impunity and injustice,” he said. Governor Ortom who spoke through his chief press secretary, Mr. Terver Akase, said that the suspension of Ruga settlements was a victory for all peace-loving Nigerians.  Cattle Colonies, Only Solution To Herders/Farmers’ Conflict – NSCDC Meanwhile, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has said that the setting up of ranches or colonies would help to curb the incessant clashes between herders and farmers in Nigeria. The commandant-general of the NSCDC, Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, stated this yesterday at the opening of a three-day training workshop on managerial leadership and capacity building for newly promoted commandants of the agency. Represented at the event by deputy commandant-general (Operation), Hillary Kelechi Emafu, the CG commended states which have embraced ranching, saying that they stand to gain a lot from it apart from helping to curb security challenges. He implored the new commandants to explore the knowledge gained in the workshop in service delivery and work towards “efficiency, humility and integrity which is the core vision and mission statement of NSCDC in delivering on the mandate of securing the life and property, critical national assets and infrastructure among others.”  NYCN Wants Fund Used For Education, Job Creation On its part, the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) advised the government to channel the funds earmarked for Ruga settlements to education and job creation to reduce the alarming rate of out-of-school children and unemployment in the country. The NYCN national president, Comrade John Oladele Nihi, gave the advice in a press statement he made available to journalists in Abuja yesterday. Nihi said that Nigeria is currently having the highest estimated number of over 10 million children who are currently out of school, adding that the number is increasing on daily basis. He emphasised that the issue of children dropping out of school should be of a great concern to the government, saying that efforts should be made to address the challenges head-on. To Alhaji Dauda Iliya, a resident of Maiduguri, Borno State, the suspension of the policy is improper because for several years, the Fulanis have been abandoned in the scheme of things. He said that apart from the nomadic education initiated in the 1980s, the government has not done anything for them. Iliya said:” For me I think Ruga settlement is meant to support the Fulani and other people in the country because it will be a source of economic opportunities.” The sole administrator, Borno State Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (BOCCIMA), Alhaji Ahmed Ashemi said, lack of sensitisation on the Ruga settlement initiative was responsible for its rejection. Ashemi stated that most people condemned the project for political reasons. He said:” I think that the Ruga project from the intention of the government is a good thing, because, it will settle the Fulani herdsmen in one place and reduce the friction between them and farmers. But there has been political tone to the introduction. People have introduced politics to it.”  Delta IPAC Hails Suspension Of Programme In its reaction to the Ruga controversy, the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Delta State commended the federal government for not going ahead with the policy. IPAC said  it was an indication that President Buhari respects the opinions of majority of Nigerians on the matter. The publicity secretary of IPAC in the state, Comrade Sylvester Umudjane, told LEADERSHIP in Asaba that the policy came at a time when there was security tension in the country, hence the criticisms that trailed it. He commended President Buhari for listening to the cries of Nigerians even as he tasked the federal government to build confidence among the various ethnic groups in the country. In Cross River State, the head of Bosok Vigilante Group, Akparabong community in Ikom local government area, Mr. Tawo Agbor, the suspension of the programme was commendable. He said: “We use this medium to thank that the federal government for reviewing the policy which to me is unpopular to most Nigerians particularly those in the South-South geopolitical zone of the country. In Jos Plateau State, the chief executive officer of Jilli Gas Services Limited, Dandam Jiilli Yinusa, said the suspension of the Ruga settlement has averted the crisis that might have arisen from its implementation. He said: “As you can see from the reactions of various ethnic groups who kicked against the exercise, to me it is a step in the right direction.” For Steve Aluko, a civil rights activist, the decision was timely, adding that it showed that federal government was sensitive to dangers the policy posed to national unity and stability. Also a group, Berom Youth Moulders, said that the suspension of Ruga programme indicated that the government was listening to the yearnings and aspirations of the people. Its national publicity secretary, Pam Dung Gyang charged the government to always consult widely on such sensitive national issues  NOA DG Cautions Against Politicising Initiative Relatedly, the director-general of the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr. Garba Abari, called on politicians to desist from politicising the Ruga settlement policy. Abari made the call at a stakeholders’ meeting of “Engagement on building a people of peace: Focus on gender perspective’ organised by the agency yesterday in Abuja. He described Ruga settlement scheme as a well-thought out policy to solving the perennial herders and farmers’ crises. He said: “The Ruga settlement project is only for states where their governments willingly provide land for it. The project will not be implemented by compulsion as some have claimed. “Politicians are deliberately propagating unsubstantiated information to stoke the flames of distrust and suspicion among Nigerians over the herders and farmers issue,” he said Abari urged Nigerians to be vigilant to the antics of politicians and not be misled and  called on the media to be investigative and analytical on the issue so as to disseminate only correct information and not fan the embers of hate and disintegration.  Consult More On Policy, Lawyer Tells Presidency An Ilorin-based legal practitioner, Omotayo Ishola asked the federal government to dialogue, lobby and negotiate with the stakeholders, especially the state governors to allow the Ruga policy to stay instead of suspending it. Ishola who opposed the suspension of the policy, said that until Nigerians learnt not to politicise serious issues, the security challenges bedevilling the country would continue unabated. He noted that the federal government’s decision might have been due to the political pressure which “we have used to colour every well- intended government policy geared towards providing enduring solutions to our problems. “According to the Land Use Act of 1976, the federal government can acquire any land in any state of the federation for public use in collaboration with stat governors. The idea of cattle ranching comes under the omnibus interpretation of the Act. The federal government was right originally in wanting to acquire land across the states of the federation for the purpose of settling the Fulani herdsmen to minimise security challenges the nation is facing. “However, I do not know the specific reasons why the federal government has jettisoned the proposal now. Having regards to our federalism and with regard to the past, the federal government under the late Alhaji Shehu Shagari’s presidency acquired land all over the 19 states then to build housing estates. It’s my submission that the suspension of the policy might have been to the political pressure which we have used to colour every serious policy in Nigeria,” he said. In Rivers State, Mr. Phredom Kodam, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) said that “any country that does not have regard for history does not make progress. He said: “How many of those complaining of Ruga today realise that even before the Buhari administration, states had laws and grazing reserve areas for cattle. I don’t like the idea of siting Ruga in my state, but I don’t have to complain about it and will not put it on anybody.” Another APC chieftain in the state, Ikenda Clinton Elechi, said that in a volatile country like Nigeria, implementing Ruga will need more communication and orientation for the people at the grassroots. Elechi said: “For me, therefore, the concept of Ruga is one that focuses on the agro sector. However, in a highly volatile country as ours, with diversity of ethnicities and religious beliefs, implementing Ruga requires so much communication, confidence-building, patience, tolerance, partnerships, assurances and mutuality.” In Ibadan, Oyo State, a public analysis, Oladele Ogunsola, said that the development had shown that President Buhari is responsive and sensitive. A pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Peter Adebolu, said that Ruga programme should “rest in pieces.” While thanking God for the federal government for suspending, wondered the hullabaloo about accommodating cattle and their herders. He lamented that many Nigerians suspect that President Buhari was so committed to an agenda of giving Fulani herdsmen a fundamental sitting across the length and breadth of Nigeria no matter what people say, think or do. “This Ruga under the Buhari government will go the same way. May it rest in pieces,” he said.  FG Sued Over Ruga Project A legal dimension was added to the crisis yesterday when the  federal government was sued over the planned introduction of Ruga settlements in the 36 states of the country. In the suit with number FHC/ABJ/CS/761/2019 instituted by the board of the Incorporated Trustees of Malcolm Omirhobo Foundation, the Federal High Court was urged to void and annul the Ruga settlement scheme already established in Niger State and anywhere else so established throughout the country. The plaintiff prayed the court to restrain the federal government, the president, the attorney-general of the federation (AGF) and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to restrain their servants, agents and privies from carrying on with the Ruga Settlement Scheme in Sokoto, Nasarawa, Kogi, Katsina, Kebbi, Zamfara, Adamawa, Kaduna, Taraba, Plateau and Benue States already penciled down as pilot states for the policy. The plaintiff also wants the Federal High Court to stop the above listed parties in the case from imposing the policy on Benue, Ekiti, and Taraba States which already have their respective anti-open grazing laws enacted by their state Houses of Assembly, pursuant to the provision paragraph 18 of the 2nd Schedule to the 1999 Constitution (as amended). The court was also urged to restrain the governors of Benue, Ekiti, Taraba and Niger States and their counterparts in other 32 states as trustees of the land of the indigenous people of the various ethnic groups of Nigeria from volunteering their land for the establishment of cattle colony or Ruga settlement throughout the country. The originating summons filed by Malcolm Emokiniovo Omirhobo faulted the introduction of the Fulani Ruga settlement policy of the federal government on the ground that the policy runs counter to the construction of Sections 1 (42) 43, 44, 55, 81, 82 and 83 of the Second Schedule of the 1999 Constitution especially Sections 28, 29 and 51 of the Land Use Act of 1978.  Northern Groups Give PMB Ultimatum However, the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has given the Buhari-led federal government 30 days ultimatum to halt and  stop the raging opposition against the implementation of Ruga. It also called on the security agencies to check and bring under control the current inflammatory remarks by the southern leaders in the same manner. Addressing a press conference in Abuja yesterday, CNG spokesman, Abdul-Azeez Sulaiman, urged the  government and the southern leaders to heed the notice “failing which we would most definitely be left with no option than to consider resorting to our decisive line of action.”