Chairman of the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mr. Tope Smart has disclosed that insurance companies wrote businesses worth N400 billion in 2018, 10 per cent higher than N363 billion recorded in 2017. He disclosed this at the annual general meeting (AGM) of the association in Lagos, recently. Smart also noted that the association was working closely with the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to promote the business of insurance and increase its contributions to national Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Some of the initiatives’ according to him, include, the insurance industry rebranding project; regulation on micro insurance; collaboration on financial inclusion; bancassurance guidelines, among others, expected to impact positively on the business of insurance companies. Also, the director-general of the association, Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, noted that in a bid to encourage good relationship with the insuring public, the Customer Compliant Bureau, established by the association, has effectively resolved over 40 conflicts received from policyholders and 30 between member companies. She stressed that the association was assiduously working to reduce complaints from policyholders to a minimal level, stating that, this has encouraged confidence of the insuring public. Meanwhile, policyholders who suffered insured risks in the 2018 financial year were compensated by insurance companies to the tune of N160.5 billion. According to stakeholders in the industry, this was an improvement from N142.83 billion claims paid in 2017 financial year as virtually all underwriting companies recorded an increase in claims paid in their latest financial year. The increase in claims volume, according to findings, is connected to the rise in replacement value of insured assets, as insurers have to pay through their nose to replace insured assets when risks occur, at a time the premium is too meager compared to the claims value. Moreover, increased awareness on the need for policyholders to make claims, is partly responsible for this increase. Further investigation shows that most of the underwriters had to relinquish about 70 per cent of their income to pay these claims, thereby, leaving them with about 30 per cent Gross Profit.