The very successful story of Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) the agency put in place by the General Sani Abacha administration to bring palliative effect to Nigerians in the aftermath of the increase in petroleum prices in those heady days, will be incomplete without the generous mention of the name of Salihijo Ahmad. He was the prime mover and executive consultant of Afri-Projects Consortium, who the chairman of the agency, General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), engaged to drive the initiative. That synergy between a government agency and a private consultancy firm left a mark that has remained a reference point on how to deploy public resources across board. At that time, with international and local political as well as economic pressure bearing down on the administration, the urge to make an impression in the minds of the people was crushingly urgent and required the best of efforts. Buhari, relying on his vast public service experience, went for hands-on men and women with the requisite capacity and integrity to actualise the aims and objectives of the then military administration. Buhari could have engaged one of the many foreign consultancy firms operating in the country but he chose an indigenous firm whose defacto leader was a rising star called Salihijo Ahmad. The PTF operated like an alternative government and gave the Abacha government the credibility it badly needed at the time. The PTF is unarguably the most successful government intervention programme in Nigeria in as many years. Salihijo represented the best and brightest of his generation. He also embodied the aspirations of that generation. He showed the world what the Nigerian professional class could achieve with little money. He was hardworking, courageous and a sophisticated thinker. With him, nothing was too high to aim for. He was always reaching for new grounds and carrying his contemporaries along with him. People who worked with Salihijo still remember him as an epitome of the best anyone can expect to find when it comes to professionalism. He took the affairs of the country very seriously and he frowned at corruption and slothfulness and saw deep into the future. His contemporaries, reflecting on the life and times of the man, claim he derived satisfaction from the boundless energy he deployed to the service of the nation and humanity.  Salihijo, by their accounts, was happiest when he was busy in the service of others, always quick to lend a helping hand.  His vision, his courage and his strength came from his spirit.  Living his vision and providing service to mankind was his achievement and fulfilment. From what he achieved during his stint with PTF, Salihijo’s performance as a management consultant, by the assessment of colleagues  and  associates, uplifted the face of professionalism in Nigeria as he recognised greatness and appreciated any good he could find in a person and encouraged many to actualise their potentials. More than anything else, this newspaper recalls his exceptional leadership qualities, good foresight as well as a powerful sense of mission that endeared him to friends and foes alike. Many of his legacies live on. Not many, not even some of his closest friends and associates, know that Salihijo authored critical portions of the 1999 constitution and the law rebranding the BPE and several others. Beyond the reminiscences by those who knew and interacted with him in his lifetime, there are, in our opinion, lessons to learn from the quality of life that Salihijo lived. His commitment to duty, dedication to public service, appreciation of what it means to be human and his approach to issues that cut across political, social and economic tendencies commended him to those he came in contact with. He was a leader in the classical definition of the word. The PTF did not have the kind of billions and trillions that are thrown at public projects today with nothing to show for it. Yet, it impacted massively on public infrastructure that most still refer to. Those who knew Salihijo believe that, were he to still be alive, he would have added great value to the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. But like they say, God knows everything. He is Omnipotent, Omniscient and has absolute sovereignty. He cannot be questioned. As we mark two decades of his departure to eternity today, we join his family and friends in thanking God for the purposeful life he lived and his unforgettable service to our country and humanity. And may he continue to rest in perfect peace.