The Seme border command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has seized 7,524 bottles of bottle water smuggled into the country from Benin Republic. The bottle water, which according to the command is a prohibited from coming into Nigeria, was allegedly smuggled for Chinese workers in Nigeria. Speaking to journalists yesterday, the Controller  of the Command, Compt. Mohammed Uba said the contrabands were intercepted at the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) joint border post. He further disclosed that aside the bottled waters, ginger drinks, 1708 bags of rice and 864 jerry cans of sulphuric acid were seized in the month under review. According to him, the smuggled water has a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N3.04million and was imported from China through Benin Republic to Nigeria. The CAC said: “The efforts of the enforcement unit of the Command with regards to suppression of smuggling has been unprecedented with the arrest of nine vehicles conveying 83 cartons of Amira/Makoko soap DPV N1.8million; 1,718x50bags of Foreign parboiled rice; 26 bales of used clothes and 14 cartons of Nitro feminine soap . “ Others are l, “13 bags of expired rice; eight sacks of used shoes; 65 pieces of textile DPV; 11 cartons of insecticide; 864 jerry cans of Sulphuric acid and 2 sacks of rubber slippers.” He explained further that one of the vehicle used for conveying the contraband goods was a Toyota Hillux van (masked in an official regalia), intercepted conveying 16 bags of rice at Gbaji axis. He affirmed that with the continuous seizures, the right signal is sent to discourage other people from indulging in the unfortunate act of smuggling. He promised that the momentum of total compliance to all extant laws will be sustained to ensure optimal revenue collection, trade facilitation and suppression of smuggling to the barest minimum. Also, the coordinator, Seme Border National Agency for Food Drug Administration Control (NAFDAC), Dr Nurudeen Usman stressed that the agency’s ban importation or exportation of water into the country.