Zhang Mingpeng, former president of a local court in Dalian, northeast China’s Liaoning Province, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for taking bribes of 8.53 million yuan (1.24 million U.S. dollars). The verdict was given by the Intermediate People’s Court of the city of Yingkou, also in Liaoning. Zhang, born in 1964, was the former president of the court of the Xigang District in Dalian. He was arrested on Aug. 1, 2018. An investigation showed that Zhang had taken advantage of his various positions between 1999 and 2018 to seek profits for others. He was said to have took bribes several times, according to the Yingkou court. The court said Zhang was guilty of taking bribes. His illegal incomes were confiscated, and he was also fined 600,000 yuan. Zhang did not appeal. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that in May, China’s former top internet regulatory official Lu Wei was also sentenced to 14 years in prison and fined 3 million yuan ($447,000) for accepting 32 million yuan in bribes. Xinhua News Agency reported that Lu said in court at the time that he accepted the verdict and would not appeal. He was the country’s deputy publicity minister from 2014 to 2017, as well as the chief of the Cyberspace Administration of China from 2013 to 2016. He was placed under investigation by the Communist Party of China’s corruption watchdog in Nov. 2017. In Oct. 2018, Lu pleaded guilty and “showed repentance” when prosecutors described evidence against him at a court in Ningbo, East China’s Zhejiang province, according to an official announcement at the time. He was found to have taken advantage of his job and status to accept bribes personally or through others, Xinhua reported. The court gave a lesser punishment in view of the fact that Lu Wei confessed the details of his corruption, as well as the fact that most of the bribes have since been recovered, according to Xinhua. The Chinese government has demonstrated strong political will and institutional capacity to fight corruption through its systematic anti-corruption crackdown over the past four years. The crackdown has already swept tens of thousands out of public office and still shows no sign of subsiding. During a session of the 2017 National People’s Congress, the Supreme People’s Court and Supreme People’s Procuratorate Presidents both reaffirmed that the authorities would show zero tolerance toward corrupt officials and pledged to continue the crackdown on corruption. President Xi Jinping, on multiple occasions, repeatedly warned that corruption would frustrate economic and social reforms and is the “greatest threat” to the Chinese Communist Party’s rule.