The managing director and chief executive of the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Ahmed Kuru has said that the over N5trillion owed it by several individuals and corporations is not just a problem to the corporation but a national debt, which if allowed to crystalize, will portend serious negative economic and social consequences for the entire nation. Speaking during the opening of the AMCON 2019 annual seminar for Hon. Judges of the Federal High Court, which was organised in collaboration with the National Judicial Institute (NJI) at the weekend, Kuru noted that AMCON is constantly under the observation of international monetary institutions and have entertained visits and inquiries from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) with respect to its strategies for resolving the over N5trillion debt held in AMCON portfolio. Stating that AMCON would not want to be a drain on the federal budget, he said “In April this year, the IMF released its Country Report No. 19/92 where it recognised the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as AMCON’s main creditor and that the AMCON debt creates additional contingent liabilities for the federal government. This underscores the need for a serious concerted effort by all relevant stakeholders, especially the judiciary towards achieving the most effective loan workout option. “As part of our renewed strategy for recovery, AMCON is focusing more on enforcement. It has become clear to us that in order to attain the target as we approach sunset of 2024, we must redouble our efforts in the area of recovery. The AMCON Act anticipated a situation where we may need to enforce if negotiations fail. Negotiations have failed us, given our sun set date. It is also clear to us that we cannot go very far without the strong support of the judiciary. My Lords would have noticed that the volume of AMCON cases have grown since June/July 2018. “At this stage of our recovery efforts, given our experience with the traditional litigation system, it has become imperative to consider other dispute resolution mechanisms, giving the slow pace of litigation, obligors’ propensity to hide under technicalities, and AMCON’s sunset timeline,” Kuru stated. On his part, the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Hon. Justice A.A. Kafarati said the success of AMCON in the discharge of its recovery mandates would only be enhanced if other safety net players and stakeholders, which include the judiciary effectively play their respective roles. Justice Kafarati reiterated that AMCON’s success at recovering the outstanding huge debt would to a large extent depend on the corporation AMCON received from sister agencies as well as critical stakeholders especially the judiciary since most of the cases of AMCON and its obligors end up in court. Kafarati who was represented at the event by Hon. Justice J.T. Tsoho, said, “AMCON is a paramount feature of the financial system stability in Nigeria. AMCON sets out to accomplish this critical objective of stabilising the macro economy by off-loading toxic assets from the balance sheet of banks.”