Workers in the country yesterday threatened to embark on a fresh strike action following the breakdown in negotiation for the implementation of new national minimum wage. The workers operating under the aegis of the Trade Union Side (TUS) of the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (JNPSNC), the eight (8) Unions in the Public Services of the Federal and 36 States of the federation accused the government of derailing the implementation of a new National minimum wage. A strike notice issued yesterday in Abuja revealed that labour may likely embark on industrial action if the current state of affairs as regards the issue of consequential adjustment arising from the new national Minimum wage of N30,000  per month remains the same. The statement signed by TUS Acting Chairman, Comrade Anchaver M. Simon, and the Secretary, Comrade Alade Bashir Lawal, regretted that since the committee set up early this month by the government to work out the consequential adjustments arising from the new National Minimum Wage of N30,000.00 started talks that “Government has been coming up with one strange proposal or the other, all with the intent of scuttling the implementation of the new national minimum wage signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, 18th April, 2019.” It stated further that “as things are right now, the government side is only prepared to pay peanuts to workers as adjustment under the pretext that it will soon be undertaking general salary review in the public service.” He stated that the committee on consequential adjustment of salary agreed to set up a technical body to work out different scenarios in respect of salaries that would be paid to workers who are in the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) that draw their emoluments from the government treasury. He disclosed that the technical committee met severally and series of computations that were to be presented for the plenary for consideration were developed. He said, “All was going on well until the government side came up later with their usual magic and ambush, all aimed at scuttling the whole exercise”. “The labour leaders stated that the TUS had initially proposed that since the minimum wage was increased by 66.66%, i.e. from N18,000.000 to N30,000.00, salaries for officers on Grade Levels 01-17 should be adjusted accordingly to maintain the relativity that exists in the salary structure in the public service. “But when the government side argued that such increase across board would raise the total wage bill too high, the TUS reviewed its demand downward and eventually settled for 30% for officers on Grade Levels 07-14 and 25% for those on Grade Levels 15-17.  The government side on its part was insisting on 9.5% salary raise for employees on Grade Levels 07-14 and 5% for those on Grade Levels 15-17,” the union stated.  The two (2) sides then agreed to capture the two positions in the technical committee’s report which will now be presented for discussion at the plenary.” According to the TUS, it received a rude shock at the last meeting of the technical committee when the government side began to hold on to a non-existent position that the technical committee’s term of reference was to base its assignment in respect of salary adjustment on what was provided for the subject in the 2019 budget.  This is very incorrect and unfortunate. It regretted that the implication of government’s position was that the technical committee cannot go beyond  what the government was pushing for which is 9.5% salary increase for officers on GL 07-14 and 5% for those on GL 15-17. The implication of this is that government has a predetermined position and only called labour in to rubberstamp its hidden agenda.