The Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON) has called on the federal government to develop inclusive information technology (IT) ecosystem to lift the country out of its current economic challenges and turn it into a digital economy. President of ISPON, Dr. Yele Okeremi, who stated this at the 2019 Presidential Dinner of the software body held in Lagos, recently called for import substitution policy direction that encourages indigenous software and IT usage in the public and private sectors. He said a critical look at IT as a field of endeavor revealed that the most important ingredient for a successful information technology industry is intellectual capital or knowledge and training of the population in the IT field. “IT, particularly the software field can be pursued effectively by countries that have a favorable age demographics, with a good youth population and a sound education,” the ISPON president said. He further proposed what the IT ecosystem should be for the country, the ingredients to having viable IT economy and how to create sustainable IT ecosystem using the success of the Silicon Valley as a benchmark. “There are several ways that a nation could catalyse its IT ecosystem to achieve success and become self-reliant and ultimately be a net contributor to the IT economy of the world. “For a country like Nigeria that has a high propensity for technology consumption and a suitable age demographic, Nigeria can borrow a leaf from countries like China that catalysed their industry on the premises of local consumption. In other words, the country needs to come up with a deliberate policy to encourage the mantra of producing what it consumes and consume what it produces,”he added. He said that the ability to achieve this was quite simple by following the money and studying which areas the country consumes the most technology products. “The country has every right to begin a simple policy of import substitution. This will ensure the practitioners in the country are automatically provided domestic market access,” he said. The former minister of communications technology, Dr. Omobola Johnson, who delivered the keynote paper at the dinner with the theme: “Having An Inclusive IT Ecosystem,” urged the government to come up with better policy and regulatory framework that will not stifle technology growth in the country. According to Johnson, “Nigerian government must focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education to drive Information and communications technology (ICT) education that will boost digital transformation in Nigeria. “Software stakeholders must collaborate with government to design specific training on ICT for young Nigerian startups and government must do everything possible to grow the country’s infrastructure in order to facilitate national development.” Citing China and India that have become strong forces for global technology development, Johnson challenged ISPON to form a formidable force that would promote inclusive IT ecosystem in the country. 