The National Association of Seadogs (NAS), pirate confraternity held one of its quarterly medical mission meetings, at the village of Daki-Buyi, Jabi, which has no healthcare center or facilities. Situated right in the heart of the FCT, the 5000-residents village has no existing healthcare or standard pharmaceutical services, and had to go all the way to Garki Hospital or hospitals in Gwarinpa for treatment, leading to the death of a pregnant woman in labour, on the road to the hospital in town at 4am. “It is scandalous to have a community right in the middle of the FCT, so deprived, at the door of multi-billion Nigerian parastatals, organizations, politicians, senators, House of Reps members, living in so much affluent,” says NAS First Mate, Chiemezie Ozumba, representing the organization’s Capoon, Kwabhunde Gbahabo, Esq. He says the medical mission held in collaboration with the FCT Primary Healthcare Board, is not only the association’s means of making a difference, but in highlighting to the public, and government the existence of such communities to attract further aid to the area. “The community needs more than one healthcare center. We believe with the FCT Healthcare Board involved there is the possibility of a healthcare opening up here faster than had we not being here at all.” Involving over 10 medical doctors, pharmacists, laboratory support workers, nurses and crowd controllers, offering free services in the areas of laboratory services – to support doctors diagnoses, Pharmacy section – to give prescribed drugs to the residents, professionals holding health talks, Screening and Counselling of possible HIV/AIDS carriers, Diagnosis and Screening for Malaria and Blood Sugar tests, the N1m outreach project/medical mission targeted general health needs of the people. Results, FCT Healthcare Board, Coordinator, Vaccine Logistics, Dr. Okoli Nicholas says, indicate high prevalence of malaria, owing to the community’s environment which holds lots of areas for the easy breeding of mosquitoes. He, however, notes that the previous efforts of the FCT Primary Healthcare Board immunization outreach in the hinterlands contributed to the presence of many immunized children in the community, reducing the number of malnourished children to two, and few cases of de-worming so far. Speaking to the media, residents of the village called for government aid in the provision of hospitals and health centers. Elderly mother, Hannatu Musa, given a clean bill of health for over a year of suffering chest pains and eye problems, was diagnosed of ulcer and eye problem. She expressed happiness over getting drugs to treat the former. Young mother, Blessing Isaiah, who has suffered infection for the past year also got drugs, which she believes unlike the ones she has been purchasing from local drug sellers will work. “We plead with government to help provide hospitals for us in Daki-Buyi. All the drugs sold here by local drug sellers are fake and do not work.” “We have written to government on this issue without any response. We have challenges of no healthcare center, bad roads, even the four transformers we have, were all efforts and contributions of the community, and the hard work of the Daki-Buyi Chief, Ishaku Lamishi. We don’t know if government is aware of our existence. We appreciate the organization, because this outreach was unexpected. They have done a marvelous work,” states representative and Secretary to the Daki-Buyi Chief, Andy Sanga. “NAS will advocate to the Primary Healthcare Board to ensure they have a medical facility,” assures NAS Head, Medical Consultant and Director, Special Duties National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Joseph Oteri. 