When people become parents, it is the belief of family, friends and neighbours that life has smiled on them and the new parents suddenly feel a sense of achievement. But beyond achievement, there is a huge sense of responsibility that should come with all the cheer and joy; one that should be taken seriously if children born in this generation must surmount the many ills that have replaced good morals in our society. EMAMEH GABRIEL, in this report, writes about the unfortunate incidences in recent time that involved minors displaying unruly behavior that did not end well for some but steered a line of debate as to society and parents’ responsibility to growing children. “After some reflection, I have come to the conclusion that nobody is really at fault, but that everybody did or did not do a little something and that all those little something added up to create a big something which led to the death of the two protagonists.’’ This was how a certain writer summarised the tragic death of William Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet character in his famous book of the same  name, when he was asked about who should be held responsible for the tragic death of the lovebirds. The fact that this writer used ‘everybody’ in his answer suggests that not one but more persons could actually have contributed to what drove the teenagers to take their own lives. This leads one to ask the question as to whether or not society is actually destroying itself from the inside when certain moral codes are overlooked in the cause of bringing up children. Plus, who is guilty, in the real sense of the word, when teens go astray or become victims of social ills? Should parents or the society be blamed? These questions have been subjected to several debates and have continued to raise concerns especially in the last few weeks following several news reports about youngsters committing suicide, abusing drugs, keeping late nights and many other social vices. A fraction of the people are convinced that parents should be blamed for the straying behavior of their children since they are responsible  for most of what combines to be part of their physical, social, moral and educational development as well as overall development, till they become adults. These same commentators, however, did not rule out the role of society as a whole; government and other social bodies, who are also responsible for the regulation of certain societal principles perceived to be harmful to children in their formative years. Unfortunately, this may have likely been deliberately disregarded in our Nigeria of today. For instance, a visit to some major hotels and night clubs in the FCT, particularly in satellite towns in the nation’s capital, revealed the shoot of moral decadence among teenagers. Teens, 15/16-year-olds, can be seen smoking and drinking openly. How did we get here? ‘‘Some hotel owners these days no longer care who comes in and out of their hotels or club house as long as their bank accounts are swelling,’’ Patrick Umoru, a manager in one of the relaxation centers in the city, said. ‘‘Old or young, they are welcomed with no concern as to the source of the money these children come to spend,’’ he added. He said this might as well be the case of some of the ugly developments recorded across the country in recent times, particularly the ugly incidence involving a 17-year-old student of the University of Abuja who was found dead in a swimming pool at a popular night club in Abuja. The story leading to the death of Emmanuel Balogun left many Nigerians in shock and disbelief especially when it was revealed that friends who were with him that night actually stood back and watched him drown and afterwards, stole from him before leaving the scene. Emmanuel, according to reports, had gone to The Dome, a fun spot in Abuja, along with friends and had sponsored their bills for the night party that fateful night. It was a party hosted for fresh year students at the hotel. According to his friends, it was the deceased that paid N2, 000 gate fee for each of them and also bought fish and juice which they all drank. They enjoyed the night till the next morning when tragedy struck and from a CCTV footage obtained from management of the hotel, it was discovered that after the teenager drowned, his colleagues did not only abandon him but also robbed him. “From the CCTV, we noticed the deceased entered the pool with three of his friends and around 3.33am he started struggling in the pool. His friends were all watching him until he stopped struggling and drowned.’’ “They all left the pool immediately and one took his handset; the other took his trousers and brought out the money inside the pocket and wore his shoes. They left the hotel around 4.18am according to the footage we saw.” The action of the teenagers raised a lot of questions and left a lot of people bemused as to how children their age could act so wild as to ignore the human spirit within them as if suddenly consumed by a spirit of beasts. While Nigerians were yet to recover from the shock of the horror story trailing Emmanuel’s death, even as they pondered the question as to why the management of the hotel would allow children bellow the age of 18 into a club house for a party that extended to the next day, a video of a four year old child drinking beer at a local function in one of the states in the Southeast went viral on social media. The little boy in the video, was seen struggling to keep the bottle stable in his mouth while his drunken mother watched and allowed people to film her no more than 4-year-old son while she boasts that he was having his second bottle at the time she was speaking. A little before this video swept the internet, yet another picture of two secondary school girls’ in their uniform, who were spotted drinking beer at a joint in Akwa Ibom State, also went viral on social media, attracting comments and reactions from various quarters across the country. Some people describe this development as a mirror image of a skewed society. But what could really be responsible for this level of misbehavior among teenagers? ‘‘Why should any hotel or school management allow students of underage to party in a hotel till dawn? What is the authority regulating hotel business in the country doing about minors flooding hotels in major cities in the country?’’ asked Andrew Etefo, an education psychologist. ‘‘By the way, when a child finds his or herself in a new environment, it becomes the duty of the parents to monitor that child’s movement at that particular time to help avoid bad peers. This is the case of the young man found dead in a swimming pool at a night club. He was with the wrong people at the place and at the wrong time, odd hours I can best describe it. ‘‘Blame the authority as you like, I know a lot of people will not want to hear this, it is the bitter truth. But parents are the ones who are supposed to be the closest persons to their children. Parents should become the child’s idols, best friends and motivation, people who can implant moral principles in children, producing a first-class society with successful adolescences but when this is not there, there is bound to be lapses,’’ he said. ‘‘I am sure if that gentleman was close to his parents, he would have put a call across to them to inform them of his whereabouts that night and it was possible for either of the parents to tell him not to attend such party,’’ said Mr Andrew, who also noted that parents cannot be blamed 100 per cent for the shooting up of moral decay among youth as there are also a lot of cases whereby well-bred, smart and virtuous children have also fallen prey because people in authority have also failed to play their part. ‘‘I saw that video of a child drinking beer on social media and I was shocked. I was one of those who raised the alarm that the mother should be arrested and even subjected to psychiatric test to examine her sanity status,’’ said Mrs Raihinat Aliu, a mother of three. ‘‘What becomes of that little boy later on in future if at this age, his mother has made him an alcoholic? Will you hold someone else responsible for what he becomes in the future? Certainly not! Who knows what else the mother does in his presence or does to him at home? I am surprised that till now, nothing has been heard about the woman and her son but authorities are busy arresting adults who they have branded sex workers in the FCT.’’ On the students who left classes to drink at a beer joint, she said that also boils down to the responsibility of the parents and the school authorities and also the owners of such joints who, in the first place, sell to them and allow them to seat and drink in the same spot. ‘‘It is an aberration so to say. Will they allow it if those girls were their children?’’ asked Mrs Raihinat. ‘‘Will any hotel owner allow his child of that age to party till wee hours? As for the woman who was seen with her child drinking in public, I think she needs to be tested to find out if she is mentally okay. And the authorities own the society the responsibility to separate the child from his mother to prevent further abuse. ‘‘I think it is now the responsibility of child welfare in the country to take up these issues in their categories to help protect these youngsters,’’ she advised. No official of FCT Social Development Secretariat was available for comments on these issues raised so that the air can be cleared as to the role government is playing to ensure that what happened to late Emmanuel does not become the fate of another child. However, an Abuja based lawyer and founder of Egalitarian Mission, Dr Kayode Ajulo, said that there is a law barring under-aged from alcohol in Nigeria and night clubs. He added that unfortunately, the laws are not being enforced. According to him, the death of the University of Abuja undergraduate should serve as a wakeup call for the government to begin to implement some of these laws. ‘’The government should be challenged with the death of this young, promising boy and ensure that the laws available to stop some of these unfortunate incidences are strictly adhered to so that that teenagers in the country can be protected like their counterparts in other countries the world over.’’ Another lawyer, Barrister Poju Odema, said the death of the boy is part of the irresponsibility of government. ‘‘If we have a responsible government, by now, the owner of the nightclub should be answering some questions at law enforcement agencies.’’ He agreed with Dr. Ajulo that there are laws which unfortunately are not being enforced. ‘’The death of the boy is one of the several deaths that have occurred due to irresponsibility of government. In developed countries, or a sane society, investigations would have been carried out to actually determine what happened.’’