Exactly 56 years ago, a child was born to a little known, indigent, peasant farming family in Ajikamai Village, Shendam Local Government Area of Plateau State. He was immediately christened Simon, a carefully selected Biblical name. Names, they say, stick with people and, like his patron saint, Simon Peter, the child shall grow up to do exploits, which others could not, as though to fulfill the prophecy associated with his name. In spite of a challenging background, the ambitious, determined, resilient, uncompromising, dogged and focused young Lalong overcame all odds and began a tortuous journey of life, which today is to say the least, a glorious one. From elementary school at the Transferred Roman Catholic Primary School in Shendam, to a stint at Government College,Toto, completing at Government Secondary School, Shendam, and then to the School of Preliminary Studies, Keffi, and a stint at the University of Jos before proceeding to the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, where he bagged a Bachelors Degree in Law, consolidating it with the mandatory Nigerian Law School, Lagos’s BL, and a Masters Degree in Law at the University of Jos much later, Lalong’s life and academic exploits are a study in a combination of uncommon ambitiousness, determination, doggedness and resilience. Looking back at where he took off, and especially against the backdrop of losing his father while in Junior Secondary School, with the father bequeathing nothing to him and his siblings, and where he is today, the people of Plateau State and his community are left with the Hobson’s choice, which is to thank God for his benevolence by blessing them with such an iconic illustrious son. A popular axiom says that some leaders are born, others are made and some have leadership positions entrusted upon them. The way and manner the amiable governor has exhibited his leadership acumen leaves no one in doubt that he has the traits of all the three leadership traits entrusted upon himself, hence making it difficult for anyone to attempt to ascribe any branch of the tripod to him. That he is leading the people with uncommon determination and transparency is a testament to that. Governor Lalong has carved a niche for himself as a lawyer, lawmaker and leader, having successfully traversed the three arms of government – the judiciary, the legislature and the executive with distinction, accolades and results to show. He holds an enviable record of having NEVER lost an election in his entire life! Before he ventured into full time politics, he was a legal practitioner of high standing among his contemporaries. He held several leadership positions, such as Assistant Secretary, Nigeria Bar Association, Jos Chapter and President of the Goemai Youth Movement, his tribal association, among many others. It is on record that he never disappointed those that believed in his ability to deliver and entrusted him with the leadership of the various positions he has held in the past. This, thus, paved the way for him to enter politics, which he now bestrides like a monstrous colossus at both state and national levels. Governor Lalong became a member of Plateau State House of Assembly in 1999 and because of his sterling leadership qualities which his colleagues in the assembly noted early, they elected him their Speaker. He was re-elected in 2003 to the State House of Assembly and again re-elected as the Speaker, making him the longest serving Speaker in the history of the State Assembly, a record that has remained unbroken to date. There is no gain saying that Governor Lalong led the Assembly with wisdom and commitment in spite of some challenges that confronted the state at that time. This, no doubt, culminated in the people of Plateau State overwhelmingly voting for him in 2015 as their governor, despite the stiff challenge from the then ruling party in the state. As a matter of fact, ab initio, when he declared his intention to contest the governorship election and his campaign posters littered the nooks and crannies of the state, nobody gave him a chance because of the overwhelming vice grip which the then ruling party had held the state for 16 years, but the rest is now history. On assumption of office in May 2015, which incidentally is the month of his birth, Lalong characteristically quickly settled down to brass tacks and handled the affairs of governance with the expertise and experience of a benevolent statesman. He silenced his critics in his first term in office and further endeared himself to his supporters, especially with his inclusive style of governance which banished all forms of discrimination in terms of one’s ethnic or religious background and carried everyone along. Through his genuine disposition to peace and judicious efforts to maintain same, Plateau State enjoyed unbroken peace for almost three years of his administration before the enemies of progress eventually punctured the harmonious atmosphere in the state, perhaps with a view to denting that enviable record and evening political scores ahead of the 2019 elections which was barely a year away. In spite of the security setback,  the Governor promptly liaised with security agencies and other relevant stakeholders and nipped the security challenge in the bud to return the state to relative peace. As part of efforts to sustain peace, security and good governance in the state, in 2016, the governor created the Plateau Peace Building Agency (PPBA) that developed a five-year strategic peace plan. Being a peace maker naturally, a quintessential lawyer, a legislator per excellence and an exemplary and strategic leader, Governor Lalong adopted dialogue to unite and assuage aggrieved parties both in government and other areas. To underscore the importance of traditional rulers in the attainment of enduring peace, he filled vacant traditional stools and upgraded some deserving second class chiefs to first class status. To complement the other approaches, he liaised with the Federal Government and attracted a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Search and Rescue Unit in Kerang and a Mobile Police Squadron in Shendam and Gashish. The Plateau State government under governor Simon Lalong has also procured security vehicles and other logistics for security agencies operating in the state to facilitate their operations. The harmonious working relationship between his office as the chief security officer and security chiefs in the state is exemplary and worthy of emulation. This synergy has yielded many positive results including ensuring the peaceful conduct of the last general elections despite pre-election insinuations that Plateau was a flashpoint for possible tension. The prophets of doom had predicted that the 2019 general elections would be bloody in Plateau but with the help of God and the commitment of the governor, as well as proper coordination by the security system, the elections in Plateau were one of the most peaceful in the country. Also worthy of note is the fact that the Governor did not even contemplate taking advantage of his position to try to compromise the electoral process, a development that led to his party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, losing some National and State Assembly seats. Unemployment is viewed by many as a trigger for insecurity and instability. In realization of this, in 2016, the Governor created the Plateau State Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency (PLASMEDA). The agency has achieved a lot in terms of training women and youths with entrepreneurial skills and supporting them to set up their businesses. Many youths through these efforts are now gainfully employed and some are now employers of labour. This has no doubt, taken them off the list of potential crisis mongers. Mention must be made of a young entrepreneur from the state, Jerry Mallo, who with the support of the state government was recognized by the Federal Government and won the 2018 overall best SMEDA award for his exploits in locally fabricating tractors and other implements. The Governor Simon Lalong-led administration successfully cleared N18 billion salaries arrears it inherited and has been consistent in prompt and regular payment of salaries and other entitlements of workers and pensioners. This has gone a long way in promoting industrial harmony, which is a bedrock for productivity and peaceful coexistence between the government and the governed. The regular payment of salaries has helped the workers to plan their lives according to their earnings and give their best in service to the state. That was not the situation before the present administration came on board. By adhering to the Biblical injunction that ‘A Worker Deserves His Wages’, Governor Lalong has earned for himself the name “Governor Alert”. Lalong believes so much in one of the basic tenets of leadership, which sees governance as a continuum. Thus, posterity will be kind to him for his uncommon initiative of continuing with projects started by his predecessors, a deviation from what has become a common feature of governance in Nigeria. These include multibillion naira projects, which he inherited from past administrations and completed for the overall benefit of the entire people of the state. Prominent among the projects are the Mararaban Jema’a-British America Express Way and the State Secretariat Flyover, thus ending the anti-development culture of ignoring and or abandoning inherited projects in Plateau State. The Governor also initiated and completed in record time, some key projects including the Low-Cost Road network, the Rantya-Rafiki Road network, the Rukuba Road network, the Angwan Rogo Road network and the Tudun Wada-Kabong Road network. This is in addition to awarding of contracts for about 22 new rural roads to open up the rural areas and especially for the transportation of farm produce. In line with the Federal Government’s resolve to diversify the nation’s economy to agriculture, Governor Lalong has revived the Plateau Fertilizer Blending Plant in Bokkos, procured 400 tractors and distributed same among farmers in the state to help harness the state’s abundant agricultural potentials with the view to turning around the economic fortunes of Plateau State. Governor Lalong’s Administration equally rehabilitated the Panyam Fish Farm that was a shadow of itself prior to 2015. The farm has created job for many Plateau citizens, and has been contributing to its Internally Generated Revenue and is now a major source of protein for the people. Besides, the administration repurchased the Brewery Agro Research Company, (BARC) Farms that was sold by a former administration in the state. Industrialization has also been given attention as the government has resuscitated the Highland Bottling Company in Barkin Ladi in partnership with Hummer Drinks Limited on the basis of a Private-Public Partnership agreement. Another major feat recorded by Governor Lalong is the repositioning of the Plateau Investment and Property Development Company, (PIPC) for optimal productivity. One of PIPC’s success stories is the efforts she has made so far in bringing back to life a major revenue earner for the state, the Jos Ultramodern Main Market, which was burn down almost twenty years ago. Also of note is the rehabilitation of the hitherto dilapidated Plateau Hotel under Private-Public Partnership. Above all, Governor Lalong has also embarked on a quantum of new projects scattered across the entire state, which cut across all sectors, particularly education and health services, under what is called the Lalong Legacy Projects. With the ongoing execution of these projects, and their expected completion over the next four years, I want to be quoted as saying that Governor Lalong will leave a legacy of the best governor in the history of Plateau State. Your Excellency Sir, as you clock 56 years of age, take comfort in the fact that there is no such thing as going downhill for overachievers like you. Instead, look forward to conquering the NEXT LEVEL as the people are behind you on your resolve to give them more dividends of democracy before you proceed to the NATIONAL LEVEL of the NEXT LEVEL in 2023. In the game of life, you are a winner. Happy Birthday Sir, and wishing you many more years of sound health, success and prosperity in your God-ordained service to mankind!  Longyen is Lalong’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity.