Premier Partner and the Official Airline of Expo 2020 Dubai, Emirates Airline has unveiled the design and visitor experience concepts of its ultramodern pavilion for the 6 month mega-event. According to the airline, the Emirates pavilion’s design and visitor experience will utilize interactive technologies and design-thinking focusing on the future of commercial aviation. Already, Emirates has broken ground on the pavilion and construction work began in March 2019. Commenting, His Highness Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Chairman and Chief Executive, Emirates Airline & Group said “We are incredibly proud to unveil the first details of the Emirates Pavilion today, which celebrates the themes of Expo 2020 Dubai. The aim for our pavilion is very much in line with that of Expo 2020 Dubai, to stimulate connections, create experiences and foster creativity and innovation, inspiring a commitment for a better future. The forward-thinking experiences will highlight the best that is yet to come in aviation, and will be a platform to showcase how important mobility is for the world today and in the future”. “Emirates and the wider transportation ecosystem here in the UAE will play a key role in providing connectivity for a successful Expo 2020, and the economic impact of the transport, hospitality and tourism sector will contribute AED 16.4 billion (United Arab Emirates Dirham) equivalent to N1.6 trillion to the UAE economy, underscoring the vital role these industries play in generating economic value by bringing people together and breaking down barriers”, the chairman added. Her Excellency Reem Al Hashimy, UAE Minister of State for International Cooperation and Director General of Bureau Expo Dubai 2020 said: “We are excited to be bringing the whole world together to experience this incredible mega event. For almost 170 years, World Expos have united people in a spirit of inspiration and excitement for the future, and have amazed them with innovation, culture, art, food and fun. “Air travel has transformed the ability of people to experience everything that the world has to offer. Expo 2020, and Emirates as our Official Airline Partner, will be bringing all of that together in one place, Dubai, in 2020. And the Emirates Pavilion will tell the incredible story of the role that air travel will continue to play in transforming mobility and shaping our futures.” Taking place from 20 October 2020 to 10 April 2021, Expo 2020 Dubai is a must-attend event for visitors with an array of unique experiences at 190 country pavilions, and a packed entertainment programme with daily live events, parades, music and cultural festivals, inspiring talks and workshops and more. Food lovers and gourmands looking for innovative dining concepts will be able to sample cuisines from every corner of the globe, with over 200 dining experiences from casual food truck concepts to fine dining, and 34 ‘never seen’ before food concepts in Dubai. The Emirates Pavilion is guided by the three themes of Expo 2020 Dubai: mobility, opportunity and sustainability and was designed to reflect the dynamic lines of aircraft wings ready to take flight. The 26 slanted architectural fins that cover the entirety of the pavilion will hold over 800 metres of LED lights to create multi-sensory effects and movement across the structure, showcased by lightshows during every night of Expo. The latest fabrication technologies, building techniques and sustainable design elements will be used such as integrated solar arrays, sustainable off-site construction, responsive solar shading and a verdant landscape on both the inside and outside of the Emirates Pavilion. For the visitor experience, the Emirates Pavilion will offer a glimpse into the changing world of commercial aviation and will help drive the discussion around the power of mobility and its advancements both in the air and on the ground. This will   ultimately enables the physical connectivity for people and products to move across the globe in a modern, efficient and environmentally sustainable way.