President Muhammadu Buhari, a few days to the February Presidential election, talked tough by directing soldiers deployed to man polling units to shoot on sight ballot box snatcher. This directive was seen by most Nigerians as a direct danger signal to anyone planning to cause any form of violence during the polls. The history of elections in the country is replete with one form of violence or the other. This, perhaps, prompted the president to give such an order to the security agencies. Even with the directive in place, a total of 323 persons were arrested in states across the country in connection  with various electoral infractions committed during the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections. During the March 9 governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections, 796 suspects were arrested nationwide. The police authorities had assured that all those found culpable after investigation would be prosecuted in line with the law. For those arrested for various electoral offences, the police directed the special electoral offences team of the Force to undertake detailed and conclusive investigations into all the cases with a view to liaising with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure their prosecution. Both the police and INEC have since the end of the elections promised that the culprits will face the full wrath of the law but we are compelled to say that  they cannot go far beyond that as past experience has shown. This newspaper is worried that the offenders are likely to escape justice if past experience is anything to go  by. But we are of the opinion that There is need for decisive action against electoral offenders in the country. As matters stand, it is becoming obvious that there is nothing the police and INEC can do in this respect. INEC, for one, lacks the capacity and wherewithal to  prosecute electoral offenders. In our view, the place to start is the National Assembly.  Lawmakers should revisit the proposal for establishment of Electoral Offences Commission as recommended by the Justice Mohammed Uwais electoral reforms committee.  As currently constituted, INEC is responsible for overseeing political parties and dealing with electoral offenses. INEC is already overburdened  with the task it presently has on its schedule and  is unable to meaningfully channel its limited resources to managing the process of bringing electoral offenders to book. The electoral body should go all out to push for the creation of an Electoral Offences Commission/Tribunal to process, arrest, investigate and prosecute electoral offenders. There is an urgent need for institutions to be set up to lighten the burden on INEC. Moreover, as part of preventing the act, INEC and other Stakeholders should design strategies to checkmate the act of violence and other forms of malpractices like vote buying and selling. Vote buying and vote selling do not only undermine the cardinal democratic principles of representation, accountability and participation but also compromise the inalienable rights of voters to free choice. Whereas INEC redesigned the entire environment where polling units were located to ensure that vote buyers do not gain access to the voters and compromise the secrecy of the votes in the 2019 elections, some politicians also designed new methods of compromising the secrecy of the votes. The civil society groups and organisations, the media, security agencies and all other critical stakeholders must work in synergy to make sure that the secrecy of the vote is protected at all times. We posit that the authorities must, as a matter of utmost urgency, retrieve from the archives, recommendations of Uwais’ Reform Committee’ which were also reiterated in the Ken Nnamani Committee.  They both point to the need to create specific jurisdiction to prosecute electoral offenses. Without creating these institutions, there will be reign of impunity by those who reap from electoral offences and their  inherent benefits among which is fraudulently assuming political  office.