The federal government has initiated moves to safeguard the Atlantic Ocean and other marine resources in the country, saying studying and sanitising the Atlantic Ocean will result in huge benefits to the economy and humanity. Disclosing this at the opening ceremony of the 5th high level industry, science and government dialogue on the ‘Atlantic Interactions’, held in Lagos yesterday, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, the minister of science and technology, said government was determined now more than ever, to understand the Atlantic Ocean and the associated benefits. “The success story of Victoria Island, the beautiful Island in Lagos State, is one of Nigeria’s most developed islands, and is today one of Nigeria’s busiest centre of banking and commerce, hosting headquarters of most major Nigerian and International corporations” he said. According to the minister, understanding the Ocean will facilitate the creation of wealth, jobs, accelerate the reduction of poverty among Nigerians and curb ocean pollution to benefit all. “The benefits of the study of the Atlantic Ocean are numerous, but it is important to mention that this will also help create the opportunity to build friendship among countries, help solve the problem of the environment, including global warming and climate change. “This will help give hope to those whose livelihood depends on the Atlantic Ocean, thereby promoting peaceful coexistence among nations”, Onu opined. Participants at the two-day dialogue is jointly organized by the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and the Atlantic International Research Centre (AIR Centre) cut across nations, including Portugal, Brazil, the USA, Namibia, the development the minister says is a calculated efforts aimed also to encourage scientists to start studying the other oceans of the world. Describing this latest effort of government as ‘exceptional development initiative’, in his goodwill message, Engr. Mansur Ahmed, the president of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), affirmed members support of efforts aimed at improving the environment and preserving the natural endowments for the benefit of humanity.