The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has established five-different corridor commands to curb crashes and ensure prompt rescue of victims during emergencies. The Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, said this in Lagos on Thursday while briefing newsmen on the situation of roads across the country. The corps marshal said that the corridor commands would involve Lagos-Ibadan Expressway up to Egbeda, Ore-Benin-Asaba to Enugu, Abuja-Lokoja, Abuja-Kaduna and Abuja Metropolis. Oyeyemi said that the highway commands would focus on providing all the necessary safety equipment and personnel to help prevent crashes. “We are injecting our visible presence across the country to ensure that our patrol teams are doing what is expected of them promptly. “When there is an obstruction, they will ensure prompt removal at any point in time because they will be mobile in nature and can sleep anywhere,’’ he said. According to him, the corridor commands will always interface with sector and unit commands’ operations to ensure sanity and safety on the expressway. Oyeyemi said that the development was part of the policy planned in the years past to sanitise the highways across the country. He said, “Part of what we are implementing now is an improved version of what is contained in the World Bank’s report on transportation. “Now, we are adopting the World Bank’s principle of creating such corridors in the country and we are starting with five. “Each command will be headed by a commander who will oversee the operations, personnel and the available equipment within each of the corridors.’’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Corps Marshal had on Wednesday told newsmen that a section of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway would be closed to traffic and the public. He said that it was to allow Julius Berger PLC., the contractor handling the section, to work on the final stage of the ongoing construction along the axis. According to him, motorists have been witnessing gridlock on the corridor because of the closure of some lanes. “And this week, a section of the road is going to be closed to the public because the construction company handling the project will be putting the final bitumen on it. “This is a pain we all have to endure; and within the next few months it will be over and the road will be ready for use,” he said. 