The Rivers State government on Tuesday dropped the multiple murder charges preferred against the factional Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Ojukaye Flag-Amachree. Flag-Amachree was standing trial before the Rivers State High Court presided over by Justice Joy Akpughunum, over alleged murders committed during the 2015 general elections in the state. The APC chieftain was granted bail by a special panel of the Court of Appeal sitting in Port Harcourt in November 2016, after he was remanded in prison custody by Justice Magareth Opara of the State High Court. In 2018, the state government, through the former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, late Emmanuel Aguma filed five fresh charges against Flag-Amachree before Justice Akpughunum. At the resumed trial of the APC factional Chairman yesterday, the trial Judge struck out the charges following a nolle prosequi entered by the prosecution on behalf of the Attorney-General of Rivers State. The prosecution counsel, Godwin Obla, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), applied to discontinue the matter which the court granted. Speaking to newsmen, Obla stated the state government have forgiven Flag-Amachree, who is also a former Chairman of Asari-Toru local government area. He said: “We drew the Court’s attention to the fact the Honourable Attorney-General of Rivers state pursuant to the powers conferred on him in Section 211 (1) C of the 1999 Constitution as Amended has filed a nolle prosequi in respect of this matter. “The Attorney-General of the State decided that he wants to discontinue the matter. And we have at the consequence of that nolle prosequi moved the court to strike-out the charges against the defendant.” Speaking to newsmen also, counsel to Flag-Amachree, Emenike Ebete declared that with the latest development, his client has no case to answer. Recall that the factional APC Chairman is facing similar murder charges before the State High Court presided over by Justice Chinwendu Nwogu, which was adjourned to May 8, 2019.