The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Administration has inaugurated the 667-capacity shops Dawaki Modern Market in Bwari Area Council. The FCT minister, Mr Mohammed Bello, who was represented by Sen. Isah Maina, Mandate Secretary, Area Council Service Secretariat, inaugurated the project on Wednesday. Bello said the project would not only provide and improve commercial activities but also provide job opportunies to youths in the council. According to him, the FCT administration has identified with Mr Musa Dikko, Chairman, Bwari Area Council’s handwork in just three years of his administration as he has brought about development in the council. “Politics is about sacrifice, the ability to serve others and not one’s self. “This shows that the chairman has the potential to do more and we have taken note as he would be rewarded accordingly and the people of Bwari are lucky to have had a leader like him who has achieved so much, within this short time.” He advised residents of the council to maximise the availability of the market within the community to carry out genuine and profitable economic activities. Also speaking, Dikko said that the market was the second Ultra Modern market his administration has inaugurated within three years. The first was the Maitama Ultra Modern market in Kubwa. This, Dikko stated, was part of his administration’s set goals in the council to impact on the lives of residents through provision of infrastructure. He also said that it was the councils intention to devise other means of generating Internal Revenue to complement the Federal Government’s monthly allocation. He said: “The recently unveiled bylaw of the council would definitely help us achieve these developments.” Mr Patrick Ojo, the project’s developer, while speaking to newsmen said the project recorded success because of the peace, communal harmony of the council and the strong will of the council administration. He appreciated the support by both the FCT administration and the area council. “The facility is a one-stop-shop of 667 shops, a banking hall, an ATM gallery, a fire service station as well as a police station, public toilets, and restaurants. “We have patnered with the council’s technical team to maintain and manage the facility, so what you see today, I assure you, is what you will see ten years from now.” Mrs Rita Kure, one of the traders who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the modern market would reduce the stress of visiting markets situated in the city centre. Kure also urged the administration to ensure provision of other infrastructure necessary in the council that would meet the needs of the people.