The Deputy General Overseer of the United Apostolic Church of Christ, U.A.C.C, Rev (Dr.) James Bayo Owoyemi, has urged Nigerians to return to God, so that the country would overcome its challenges. Owoyemi stated this while delivering a sermon at the annual anniversary of U.A.C.C Mount of Mercy in Akure, the Ondo state capital with the theme “Rehoboth ’’. The Cleric who was at the Mount of Mercy to celebrate with the General Evangelist of the church, Prophet (Dr.) Gabriel Idowu Alo, harped on the need for religious leaders to increase the tempo of their prayer for the nation at this critical time. Owoyemi added that in doing this, ” The hearts of our youths and leaders will committed to God . Also, in our various religious settings, let us talk to our people, that we have to put our trust in God.” The U.A.C.C Deputy General Overseer, who said that there was hope for a brighter future for the nation, however, urged citizens to embrace the path of righteousness so that there would be manifestation of God’s glory. According to Owoyemi,” This issue of insecurity in the land escalated because some sections of the country are not satisfy with one thing or the other. But instead of going into violence, why don’t we follow the path of peace . What we are saying is that Rehoboth is coming and when we get to our Rehoboth, everything will work together for good to us in the country.” His words: “I want to encourage our people to be focused, since we know where we are going, we shouldn’t be discouraged. Whatever difficulty we are experiencing now, we should know that better days ahead. “We are believing God that he will take us to our Rehoboth, where everything will work well for the country. Our leaders should know where they should focus this time. Because it is only when people are not discouraged that they can get to the Rehoboth. And it is when we get to our Rehoboth that we can be fruitful in the land. “There is good things in Nigeria. Nigeria will be fruitful but all we need to do is to put our trust in God. Let us be focused and stand by our belief. Our leaders must ensure that they didn’t fail God and humanity. “