Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State said on Wednesday his administration had in the last seven years expended over N45 billion on tertiary institutions in the state. He made the disclosure in Ibadan during the inauguration of the newly-constructed Oba Akinbiyi Model School II, Mokola by his administration. It was gathered that the governor also inaugurated the constructed Efunsetan-New Garage road (now Lam Adesina road) and 3.6km Ijokodo-Apete road (now Amb. Olu Saanu road). The governor said that his administration spent more than N6 billion on the institutions yearly adding the effort was to ensure access to quality and affordable tertiary education. “It is part of our transformation effort that led to the establishment of the first Technical University in Ibadan. “I am proud to tell you that the Technical University ranked among the best in Nigeria today,” he said. Ajimobi said that his administration had embarked on the construction of world class learning infrastructure across the state to fill the gap of infrastructural decay in education. He said that the inauguration of the model school was another fulfillment of the administration’s electioneering promises to the people, describing it as one of its intervention toward educational development. According to him, “we have built three models schools, two in Ibadan and one in Saki. “We have renovated classroom blocks in 100 schools across the state. “We have through the State Education Trust Fund carried out renovation works in 40 schools. Ajimobi said that the greatest innovation of his administration was the introduction of School Governing Board (SGB) which allowed the participation of students, old students and other relevant stakeholders in the management of secondary schools. He said that the SGBs in the state had since inauguration attracted projects worth N8 billion for schools in the state while government had also expended close to N7 billion as intervention. Prof. Adeniyi Olowofela, the State Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, said that no government had since the late Chief Bola Ige administration, invested in school infrastructure like the present. He said that the effort of the present administration earned Ibadan an award as one of UNESCO global learning cities adding that the award would be presented to the state in October. “This administration has built three model schools. It is a pity that the administration will not be able to inaugurate another 48 Ajumose model schools built through SUBEB until its expiration,’’ he said. Earlier, Mrs Bukola Oduwole, the Principal of the school, expressed deep appreciation to the governor on the newly-constructed school. She said that the new infrastructure would no doubt impart positively on the students, saying infrastructure had a lot to do in educational development and standard. Oduwole promised that the management and students of the school would make judicious use of the newly inaugurated infrastructure. Recalls that the governor also led his deputy, Chief Moses Adeyemo, members of the state executive council, state APC executives and supporters to the inauguration of some road projects.(NAN)