In a well-attended and colourful event in Kaduna State, charismatic Iyalode Alaba Lawson, bows out as the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines & Agriculture (NACCIMA) President. Jonathan Eze writes on the need to consolidate on her gains. The venue could be mistaken for a political scene, like a presidential visit or a national convention of a political party, perhaps for the large crowd thronging in and out of the famous and iconic Seventeen Hotel In Kaduna but Alas, it was a gathering of the shakers and movers of the economy, the Agro and allied stakeholders from the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) who had converged on the famous commercial city to honour one of its own, a quintessential businesswoman, an industrialist and a woman with many shades of excellence  and candour, Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu, who was inaugurated as the 20th President of NACCIMA. The soft-spoken and unassuming Saratu is the first female Northerner to assume the leadership of the Association. The grand occasion, which was chaired by a former Head of State, General Abdusalam Abubakar, also had five state governors in attendance. They included the Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, and the host governor, Alhaji Nasir El-Rufai, who was ably represented. They all took turns to eulogise the new president. Governor Sani Bello, said NACCIMA made a good choice in Aliyu and expressed hope that she would take the Association to greater heights. His Kogi counterpart too graciously described her as a leader who is approachable with qualities that are endearing, but not without reminiscing that he too grew up in Kaduna. The Jigawa State governor assured Aliyu of his support, adding that having performed well as Kaduna chamber president; she would do great as the 20th national President of NACCIMA. Abubakar urged Aliyu to build on successes of the immediate past president and make NACCIMA greater. On his part,  Lalung advised Aliyu to focus on making Nigeria a truly but viable zero- oil nation through Agriculture. The host governor congratulated Aliyu and said Kaduna State Government acknowledges the role of the private sector as that of valuable partners in development. El-Rufai who was represented by Prof. Kabiru Matu, welcomed NACCIMA delegates across Nigeria to Kaduna. Iyalode Lawson, who handed over to Aliyu after a successful two- year tenure as its 19th and 1st female president, prayed for wisdom, knowledge, and understanding for Aliyu to steer the ship of NACCIMA. Aliyu thanked NACCIMA for the opportunity to serve and the confidence reposed in her to pilot the affairs of the association as it’s 20th National President. She promised to continue in the tradition of excellence by strengthening the NACCIMA secretariat and the capability of its staff. Aliyu, a graduate of education from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, having served the chamber for almost three decades, said the completion of Abuja towers will be of utmost priority to her administration. Aliyu is married to Senator Nuhu Labbo Aliyu, a retired Assistant Inspector-General of police and they are blessed with children and grandchildren. The new president acknowledged the fact that the private sector is expected to play a bigger role in the quest for the rejuvenation of the economy for inclusive growth and development and the concerted efforts to reposition the country as one of the leading economies not just in Africa but the world; and also make it works for the well- being of the people. According to her, “In pursuit of this goal, the private sector has a big role to play and a lot will devolve on us in the chambers movement. Our 59th annual conference thus presents us with another opportunity to rededicate ourselves to the work ahead of us and work closely  with  government  and other  members  of the  private sector for the realisation of our goals and in doing so, we must work together to strengthen our association and rededicate ourselves to the task ahead.” As part of her planned programme, she identified revenue generation and finance as a challenge. She said “We must take seriously the issue of our finances. Our current financial situation is not encouraging. We must, therefore, embark on a   revenue generation drive to improve the financial profile of the association. “In this connection, I want to appeal to all Chambers to ensure prompt payment of their dues and those owing must meet outstanding obligations. We must also work on multiple revenue generation activities including training.” On trade and exhibitions, she stated that they are a veritable platform to showcase capability, urging that they must work on them to serve the purpose they have been created for. Aliyu also hinted that the association would focus on positioning agriculture as serious business, specifically targeting the youth through the Agriprenuer initiative designed to encourage young people to go into agriculture. “We are already working on strategic partnerships with research institutions such as the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), and  FIIRO among others to develop and implement innovative solutions across the agriculture value chain. “We will vigorously advocate Chambers of Commerce and other private sector stakeholders in States endowed with solid minerals to key into the roadmap for the growth and development of the Nigerian Mining Industry of the Federal Government of Nigeria. “We will identify and implement strategies to revive industries germane to the diversification and import substitution agenda of the government; with a specific focus on the power, textile and automotive industries. The Association will focus on small and medium enterprises and collaborate with relevant agencies and organisations .” She also promised to take strategic steps to harness the potential of electronic commerce, digital economy and online commercial activities by strengthening the capacity for online trade and investment as well as enhancing export trade through digital trading. Not to be neglected too is the creative sector. She expressed that NACCIMA would develop a closer relationship with stakeholders within the sector to develop and implement a strategic plan to further expand the contribution of the creative industries to economic growth. “We will continue to advocate the NACCIMA Gender Agenda through the NACCIMA Business Women Group (NAWORG) while we explore new frontiers and options to increase the number of   women in the board rooms, promote the involvement of women in all sectors, and advocate improved access to finance for women entrepreneurs.” The new leadership believes that closer ties with members of the Organised Private Sector and other partners, would help its course. “Currently we serve as the secretariat of the Organised Private Sector. We will also work closely  with other members of the Organised Private Sector   of   Nigeria   ( OPSN );   the   Manufacturers   Association   of   Nigeria (MAN),   the   Nigeria   Employers’   Consultative   Association   NECA),   the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) and the Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI) to ensure that the private sector in Nigeria speaks with one voice and is focused on the sustained economic growth and development of our country.” The youths have also been promised support because of the tremendous ability they possess, “we will, therefore, continue to support and guide them; encourage youth entrepreneurship, and increase our engagements with Nigerians in the diaspora as an alternative source for human and capital investment in our economy. “Internally, we will continue to strengthen the NACCIMA secretariat and the capacity of its staff to be able to meet new challenges that will devolve on them and provide effective support to serve   the exco, council, and AGM in carrying out its mandate and navigating the new frontiers. “These initiatives, and more will be vigorously implemented and monitored within the context of the NACCIMA Medium Term Strategic Plan (2018-2022) which is serving as a useful guide since its adoption just about a year ago.”, she added. Towards realizing these lofty goals, Aliyu assured of her readiness to work closely with all and carry everyone along. “We now have a new MEMART which can help us run our Association more efficiently under clear rules and let us be guided by it. And I seek your cooperation in our quest to ensure that we truly continue to serve as the voice of Nigerian business and promote the activities of the private sector in the quest to create the Nigeria of our dreams; a peaceful and prosperous home not just for a few for us all.” The new president and the Director-General of NACCIMA, Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, whom Iyalode described as the engine room of the association, were subsequently handed over the Hand-over notes, while Lawson was decorated as Honourary Life Vice-President of the association. As Saratu Aliyu trudges on as the 20th President of the association, stakeholders and the entire organised private sector will expect a vibrant leadership and an all-inclusive tenure.