In commemoration of the 2019 World Press Freedom Day, the United States Consulate General in Lagos has charged the Nigeria media to hold the government more accountable in its reportage with a view to promoting democratic tenets in the country. Speaking at a forum organised the United States Consulate General in Lagos in partnership with the School of Media and Communications, Pan-Atlantic University, the US Consulate-General Public Affairs Officer, Russell Brooks reiterated that one of the goals of the US mission is to promote democracy and strengthen democratic institutions here in Nigeria and around the world. Brooks said that it was important to utilize the World Press Freedom Day to honour colleagues in the media and know what they were doing to uphold democracy. “A free and responsible press is part of promoting democracy and the media represents the fourth estate of any democracy. “We are all familiar with the executive, judiciary and legislative branch therefore, it is crucial that the media plays a significant role in holding the other three branches accountable,” he said. The US embassy urged journalists to double check their sources of information before publishing stories in other to avoid promoting fake news and for government to do more to protect journalists from harm’s way. Delivering a keynote address titled, “Are we really Free? How the Media Landscape Impacts the Mission of Today’s Journalist,” to an audience of journalists and students of the institution, a Professor of Broadcast Journalism at Howard University and a former CNN reporter and producer, Prof. Jennifer Thomas said safety in journalism is paramount. Calling out the government to ensure safety of journalists doing their jobs, Thomas lamented that too many journalists die in the line of duty doing their jobs to defend democracy, saying such disheartening. According to her, “International organizations like the United Nations (UN) and UNESCO amongst others were currently doing a lot to ensure the safety of journalists. “Journalists are the defenders of democracy, freedom fighters of the first amendments as well as savvy and sophisticated storytellers, they need to be protected.” She urged the members of the press to double check information source to avoid promoting fake news because what they do is important to democracy for every nation around the world.