As a prerequisite to fixing the identified challenges in the cotton, textile and garments (CTG) sub-sector, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, has inaugurated Textile Revival Implementation Committee. The revival committee’s overall objective is to among others, completely stop importation of textile materials by 2023, and ensure that gap to be created was filled by Iocal production. To achieve that aim, the committee is tasked with identification of CTG hubs/clusters in Nigeria, addressing infrastructural deficiencies in the identified hubs/clusters especially power and other critical logistical assets. It is also expected to strengthen capacity of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) to curtail smuggling and dumping of imported textiles/garments, create domestic market by encouraging the patronage of locally – made fabrics especially by the uniformed personnel e.g. for military, paramilitary and schools and other uniformed institutions. The committee members are drawn from the CBN, Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Kaduna State, Federal Ministry Power Works and Housing, Nigeria Customs Services, Federal Ministries of Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Nigerian Export Promotion Council. The past 20 years have been very difficult for the cotton, textiles and garment sector in Nigeria. Farmers and processors have had to deal with low quality seeds, rising operating cost and weak sales due to high energy cost of running factories, smuggling of textile goods, and poor access to finance. Smuggling of textiles goods alone is also estimated to have cost the nation over $2.2billion. From an estimated 500,000 in the past, the workforce in Nigeria’s textile industry currently stands at less than 20,000 people. “A consolidated approach of this magnitude will afford us economies of scale, synergy in resource utilisation and provide a holistic solution to harnessing the potentials of the CTG sub-sector in Nigeria,” the CBN governor said. The key challenges identified that are bedeviling the CTG sub-sector include low cotton production, poor infrastructure (power and transport), obsolescence of existing production lines, smuggling and counterfeiting, inadequate local patronage, high cost of production, multiple taxation among others. CBN took the first step to revive the sector with the flag-off of input distribution to 100,000 cotton farmers, cultivating 100,000 hectares in 23 states of the federation. “We hope to resuscitate the cotton belts nationwide and grow the value chain till the last mile of textile production,” Emefiele said. Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, remarked that the strategy of taking the challenge from bottom to top by the authorities would help to actually address the challenges in the sector. “This is a step which we cannot afford to miss. In order to follow these steps, you need strong institutions like ministry of finance, strong Central Bank, Customs and infrastructure including power and good management,” Ganduje said.  Deputy governor of Kaduna State, Barnabas Bantex, commended the CBN governor for the efforts he has put in to transform the nation’s rural economy. “This is another great step in your effort to revive our economy through the textile industry,” he stated. Bantex expressed believe that more people would be engaged in productive activities with the CBN intervention. On his part, deputy governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan, urged that the lessons of agriculture intervention programme of the apex bank be employed in the textile sector. He noted that the high cost of production has made it possible for people to prefer importation of textile materials because they are cheaper abroad. “If we get our productivity right, the incentive will not be there for importers of textile materials. We need to create that atmosphere for that production as well. If we ban textiles now, we are just wasting our time.Once we have the sequence, it will become less incentive for smugglers,” he added.