The market capitalisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) got a boost by N1.83 trillion yesterday, following the historic listing of 20.35 billion ordinary shares of MTN Nigeria Plc at N90 per share. The company was listed on the Premium Board of the NSE. The listing was the second this year and done by way of an introductory listing. The listing by introduction means that the shares of existing MTN Nigeria shareholders will be listed without an additional public sale of shares. MTN is a leading telecommunication company in Nigeria, with a market share of  39 per cent, as against Globacom and Airtel 26 per cent, each, while 9mobile with nine per cent market share. The firm is also the leading operator in voice and wholesale lease line, possesses the largest physical distribution network and has the most expansive network coverage and widest range of Spectrum holdings (5G ready) and possesses a well-diversified enterprise client base. As of today, the telecommunication industry remains one of the fastest growing non-oil sub-sector and a major contributor to Nigeria’s GDP growth over the years. In 2018, the sector contributed 9.5 per cent (N6.60 trillion) to Nigeria’s annualized real GDP. Capital market stakeholders are of the view that the listing has lifted the overall market capitalization on the NSE and will trigger further primary market activities in the telecom space. CEO of MTN Nigeria,  Ferdi Moolman said the listing will create access for the public to participate in the ownership of the company. He stated that MTN Nigeria listing will contribute to the growth of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), adding that the listing will further establish brand leadership and legacy by becoming the first mobile network operator to list on the NSE. National Council president, NSE, Abimbola Ogunbanjo, said, “We are particularly pleased that MTN Nigeria has joined the prestigious club of companies listed on our Premium Board with this landmark transaction, which will differentiate it as a professionally run telecommunications company with high standards, having met the NSE’s listing criteria. “A Premium Board listing is a sign of commitment to strong corporate governance, excellence, professionalism, efficiency in service delivery and providing increased returns to shareholders. “It is our expectation that the MTN Nigeria listing, which is the NSE’s second largest, will encourage other telecommunication companies to list their shares on the Exchange, thereby opening the sector up to cheaper, long term capital that will boost innovation and development.” Chief executive officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said, “Today’s listing is a promising development in the country’s telecommunications sector and we encourage other players in the sector to explore the different opportunities in the capital markets for raising long term capital.’’ He noted that the listing will add to NSE bouquet of diverse investment offerings to the public, saying that having MTN Nigeria listed in the market is a testament of the Exchange’s commitment to building a dynamic and inclusive market and creating channels for sustainable investment. CEO, Chapel Hill Denhan, Mr Bolaji Balogun, said this listing would be very significant firstly because it is adding almost N1.8 trillion to market capitalization. Balogun added that this would be the second largest company by market capitalisation on the exchange and more importantly, it will also bring more of Nigeria’s best companies on to the exchange and give a wider group of Nigerians the opportunity to participate in its shareholding. According to him, there are very few companies in Africa today that generate $1 billion of free cash flow and this is one of those special companies and I am really pleased we have it on the stock exchange. He said: “This listing would encourage many other large unlisted companies both within that sector and as well as other sector to start to think about the Nigerian stock market.” An independent equities analyst at Tradelines, Tunde Jeariogbe said that the listing portends significant liquidity opportunity for all existing holders of MTNN’s shares, He noted that the federal government also gains immensely by attracting MTN to invest in Nigeria via taxes. Nigeria currently does not tax capital gains made from the sale of shares, however it does places a 10 per cent withholding tax on dividends paid by companies. According to Jeariogbe, the government will also gain VAT on commission and fees paid to stockbrokers when shares are bought and sold.  In other words, a company the size of MTN will contribute immensely to the government’s tax revenue with this listing. He added that a major point of investment is the capital gains, generally induced by corporate earnings, saying that  MTN being a highly profitable company is likely to record capital gains with ease, and such stands a high chance of boosting capital gains on its shares Also, the chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting, Ambrose Omordion said that good development for the market being the second company listing this year and 10th in the last five years, saying that this will help to deepen and balance the market with listing market cap of almost N1.89 trillion, at the same reduce the influence of dangote cement on the market. The managing director of HighCap Securities Limited, noted that MTNN  added N1.8 trillion to market capitalization, making the company the second largest entity on the Nigerian Bourse. He also noted that MTNN’s listing will be the first of its kind in the Nigerian Telecom Industry by size and its arrival could spur the entry of other major players in the industry.