Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye of the Lagos State High Court in Igbosere has sentenced a Béninoise housekeeper, Christian Hounvenon Yavine, to death by hanging for killing his employer’s 79-year-old mother. Ipaye condemned the foreigner to death after she convicted him on a one-count charge of murder brought against him by the Lagos State government. Yavine was accused of slashing the throat and almost cutting off the head of his victim, Mrs. Mariam Abiola, while she was asleep. The state government said that the convict committed the offence on July 1, 2014 at the residence of his employer located at Block 74, Flat 2, Ijaiye Low Cost Housing Estate, Pen Cinema, Agege, Lagos. Yavine, who was 18 when he committed the crime had pleaded not guilty to the charge when it was translated into French by an interpreter. In her judgment on Monday, Justice Ipaye dismissed Yavine’s defence, including a claim that he was 14 years old at the time of the offence, having been born in the year 2000. The judge held that there was ample corroborative evidence that he falsified his claim. The court observed that the prosecution’s evidence showed that at the time of the murder, Yavine was seeking admission to a university, and would have registered to sit for an entrance exam, but for financial challenges. She further held that it was unlikely that the defendant was seeking university admission at age 14. The judge also observed that a birth certificate obtained by the Lagos State government from the hospital where Yavine was born in Benin Republic showed that was born in 1996. The judge also considered Yavine’s claim that the confessional statement tendered by the government against him was contrived by the police. The convict had claimed that being a French speaker he could not have made the statement, which was written in English language which he did not understand. But the judge observed that there was corroborative evidence to the contrary. Justice Ipaye observed that Yavine lived with the deceased for two weeks before the incident, during which he also went to the market with her. The judge wondered what language he spoke with her, if he truly did not understand English language. Furthermore, the judge held that the deceased was also caught by the doctrine of last seen, which requires that a person charged with murder who was the last person seen with the deceased, should offer some explanation as to how the deceased met his death. The prosecutor said that “The convict killed a septuagenarian, Mrs. Mariam Abiola, the mother of his employer by stabbing her repeatedly in the throat with a kitchen knife. “The defendant committed the murder after his employer, Mrs. Joke Akinsemoyin, left the deceased and the teenage housekeeper in her home to go for a vigil, scheduled for 10.30 pm in her church. “When Akinsemoyin returned in the early hours of the morning, she inquired about her mother from Yavine and he told her that she was sleeping in the bedroom. When she wanted to go into the bedroom to check her, she was refused entry by Yavine and she immediately became suspicious. “After a physical struggle with the defendant, she gained entry into the bedroom where she saw the body of her mother lying in a pool of her blood on the bed,” he said. During the trial, Yavine, who was led in evidence by his counsel, Demola Dere, claimed that the police wrongfully charged him for the offence because he failed to pay a N200,000 bribe. When asked what the deceased was doing in the sitting room, the defendant said she slept in the parlour because she and her daughter usually quarrel if they slept in her daughter’s room. After weighing the evidence, the judge sentenced the accused to die by hanging.