Following recent building collapse in Lagos, Oyo and several other States of the federation, experts have called on house-owners to insure their buildings. The President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers(NCRIB), Mr. Shola Tinubu, said his association is quite touched by incessant building collapse across the country, believing that the unfortunate incidences are actually accentuated greatly by the lax of regulatory enforcement in the construction environment. While the Council commiserates with the victims of the building collapse, he charged government to give more impetus to the implementation of the enforcement of compulsory building insurance as enshrined in Section 64 and Section 65 of Insurance Act 2003. Similarly, he advised Nigerians to, on their own, insure their personal assets in order to mitigate  losses when and if losses of this dimension do occur. “Every individual should ideally live up to his responsibility of care by protecting whatever is valuable to him or her, both life and property. Our slogan has been: Whatever is worth having, is worth insuring,” he said. Earlier, Sunu Assurances Nigeria PLC has sympathised with the Lagos State government and the families of victims of the tragic building collapse which took place on March 14th 2019 at Ita Faji area of Lagos Island. To this end, the insurer called on government to enforce insurance of public buildings in a bid to compensate the victims and owners of such buildings when mishap such as this occur. “This is why we would like to implore the government to look into the issue of public safety in its entirety and enforce the insurance of every public building,” it pointed out. Similarly, the managing director/CEO, Guinea Insurance PLC, Mr. Tunde Oshadiya, said Insurers must let people know the benefits of insurance policies they are carrying, stressing that Insurance of public building is compulsory by law. Tenants, he said, should make it a priority to ensure that the house they want to rent is insured by their landlords. According to him, “One of the cheapest thing you can buy is insurance. For instance, you can insure a N10 million house with N25,000 premium. Most policyholders did not know that the Fire Insurance policy they have covers Flood, or when wind blow-off your rooftop. All these need to be explained to policyholders by marketers to ensure that customers maximize their cover.” To settle a claim, he said, should not take more than five days maximum , but that when a claimant failed to submit the required documents on time, it will prolong the claims payment period. “Delayed documentation on the part of policyholders is a challenge to timely claims payment. Claims should not take more than 5 days and there are underwriters paying within that timeframe. But when death is involved, you find it difficult to get police report on time, thereby, delaying the claim process. Moreover, some customers do report late, or fail to provide the documents required of them by their insurers on time,”  he said.