Despite the reconciliatory measures to ensure peace in the party, the crisis bedeviling the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have taken another dimension as the deputy national chairman of the party (North), Sen Lawan Shuaibu, has asked his national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to step aside. Sen Shuaibu also faulted the last party congresses in the states, insisting that the outcome represented a lack of knowledge and experience in adherence to due process in political process. The party chieftain further lamented that under the national chairman, the party had lost seven states even as he said that the party and its members at the National Assembly are now forced to trade with the opposition because of Oshiomhole’s hostile approach to the election of their principal officers.  In a letter addressed to the national chairman, dated May 27, 2019, and obtained by LEADERSHIP, Shuaibu posited that, in an advanced democracies, people who fail to add value or build on what they met on assumption of duty or show civilised examples “honourably resign.” In the letter entitled, “APC: It’s Fortune and Misfortune, Time to Act!”, Shuaibu said: “It is my honest opinion that your ability to ensure this party flourishes is deficient as you lack the necessary composure and you also don’t posses the capabilities and the requisite experience to run a political party. “The respect APC was commanding among its members and sympathisers have been completely eroded, while the goodwill has equally evaporated with the type of attitude of threats to members you deploy, including senior members like governors, senators, ministers and other government officials whose functions do not fall within your jurisdiction.  “As I know, the relationship between party and government is cooperation and collaboration to ensure government programmes are implemented in line with the party manifesto, but not shouting and giving marching instructions to government officials on television screens or on the pages of newspapers, and more often than not, they call your bluff and make  you look helplessly unimportant in the scheme of things.” The deputy national chairman asserted that he was not speaking out due to a desire to take Oshiomhole’s office. “Don’t get me wrong, do not think I am saying these about your conduct as chairman because I want to be chairman. I don’t want to be national chairman, because I cannot be, even if I want to, for as long as President Muhammadu Buhari is in office, having come from the same North West geo-political zone. “In advanced democracies, people who fail to add value or build over and above what they met on assumption of duty show some civilized examples, they honourably bow out.  “In that connection, therefore, I want to advise you to take the path of honour, to step aside and allow the party to embark on the onerous task of reconstruction and rehabilitation in those states it was weakened by the effect of the manner the last primary election exercises were conducted or even the task of recreating the party where it is on the path of extinction, arising from the loss of a sitting APC Government, for example in Zamfara State, where you directly personally created the problem leading to the painful complete loss of APC’s electoral fortunes,” he said. According to him, Oshiomhole cannot exonerate himself from blame on what happened to APC Zamfara State, where the hopes and aspirations of 534,541 APC members and supporters were shattered. “l have nothing personal, except that I love this party and cannot keep quiet seeing it being brutally murdered!” Shuaibu concluded.