The Nigeria Police and Miyatti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has agreed to work together towards bringing to an end armed banditry in Nigeria.  Acting Inspector General of Police, Muhammad Adamu said the leadership of Miyyeti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has agreed with the security agencies to flush out remnants of the suspected armed bandits hiding in various locations across the country.  Adamu stated this on Friday after a closed door meeting with various leaders of the fulani communities in Kebbi and the national leadership of MACBAN held at Presidential Banquet Hall in Birnin-Kebbi .  He said the Fulani leadership under the auspices of Miyyeti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria has agreed to support the police to flush out bandits where ever they might be in Kebbi and other parts of Northern Nigeria.  “We have talked together and they have agreed to work with us and that they said those bandits in the bush- are not all Fulani’s extraction. So they are ready to work with us to flush out the bandits in the bush”. The Minister of Internal Affairs, General Abdulrahman Danbazau, inspector general of police and other top government officials were in Birnin Kebbi on the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari to dialogue with Fulani leaders drawn from different parts of the states on how to end banditry in the country. While while briefing journalists after their meeting the police boss said “They have agreed to work with us in our efforts to flush out bandits in Kebbi State”. He added that not all the bandits in areas of the state are from Fulani extraction.  He said the essence of the meeting was to dialogue with Fulani leaders and hear from them and their challenges.  “We will take measures to dialogue with the bandits to become better citizens but if that fails we will deal with them” the IG said Earlier, the Internal Affairs Minister and Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu said the presidential delegation were in Kebbi in pursuit of the president’ Muhammadu Buhari”s all inclusive policy to dialogue with Fulani leadership on the issue of bandits in the northern states. On his part, the National President of MACBAN, Alhaji Mohammed Kiruwu said that the meeting said the meeting would served as the foundation that would bring peace between herdsmen and farmers as well promote peace and unity in the country.