The Nigerian Army has slammed a member of the Presidential Committee on the North East Initiative, Dr. Sidi Ali Mohammed, for claiming that  Boko Haram terrorists earn more pay than Nigerian Army troops. Through its acting director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, the army said yesterday that it was criminal to compare the gallant soldiers of the country’s armed forces with the rag-tag terrorists’ criminal gang. Musa said that there was no basis for comparing the outlawed criminal terrorists who commit crime against humanity with “our highly patriotic, courageous and brave soldiers whose sacrifices cannot be quantified.” He said that the statement credited to Dr. Mohammed was part of the deliberate attempt to demoralise the patriotic soldiers serving their fatherland so that the terrorists would take advantage of it, adding that it was also a way of swaying the youths to believe the lies of Boko Haram terrorists as being peddled by their sympathisers. Mohammed had said that the Boko Haram terrorists earned as much as $3,000 daily as against the Nigerian soldier who is paid N1,000 only. Musa said: “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a publication by an online medium and other social media platforms to a false claim credited to one Dr. Sidi Ali Mohammed, a member of the Presidential Committee on the North East Initiative. “In it, he alleged that the criminal terrorist group members earn as much as $3,000 daily as against the Nigerian soldier who is paid N1,000 only. This is not true, pure lie and highly irresponsible comment coming from a supposedly knowledgeable person of his calibre. “Over time, we have been alerting the world that the menace of Boko Haram terrorism is being aided and abetted by sympathisers such as Dr. Sidi Ali Mohammed,” Musa said. He further said that Mohammed must have been associated with the terrorists’ group beyond just the statement for having the knowledge of how much a terrorist earns per day to commit atrocities against fellow Nigerians and other innocent people including women and children. “Therefore, we are calling on all Nigerians to discountenance the statement credited to Mohammed while we take necessary steps to formally report him to the appropriate authorities to further substantiate these unfounded allegations,” he said Col. Musa reassured the public that the Nigerian Army would remain resolute and focused on the fight against terrorism and insurgency and that no amount of distraction or terrorists’ propaganda would dissuade it.