When Dr Joseph Nnanna, deputy governor (Economic Policies) at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was appointed chairman of board, Nigeria Export Import Bank (NEXIM) by the federal government in 2018, stakeholders and those who have been monitoring his career journey attested to the fact that another turn around technocrat has come to add value to the nation’s economy. True to expectations, NEXIM Bank, under the Nnnana-led board, has witnessed a quantum leap within a short time. For instance, the bank has facilitated the creation/sustenance of about 2,000 direct jobs, in addition to many indirect jobs and foreign exchange earnings with the disbursement of about N22billion. The beneficiaries included exporters of agricultural commodities and value-added products distributed across the country with nation-wide impact, cutting across various sectors/industries, including cocoa, cashew, sesame seed, gum Arabic and leather products. Aside its funding intervention, the Bank has recorded a quantum leap in its financial indices, with a profit of about N2.09bn recorded in 2018, from a loss position in 2017. The balance sheet size also doubled from about N61bn in 2016 to about N117bn in 2018 and is projected to increase to N190bn by December, 2019. LEADERSHIP recalls that following the appointment of a new management in April, 2017 and inauguration of the Board in March, 2018, NEXIM Bank has taken significant steps to retool its operations.  Besides collaborating with the CBN in the management of intervention funds to the tune of N550bn, its export support programme is predicated on the PAVE philosophy, that is, Produce, Add Value and Export. According to the bank, its efforts to develop the non-oil export sector is currently structured along six initiatives, which include support for critical agricultural commodities, particularly in products where the country has high comparative advantage.  This, the bank said, is to minimise informal trade and boost the country’s export footprint.  The Bank is also supporting services export in the areas of the creative economy, business process outsourcing, professional services as well as medical tourism towards saving about US$1bn lost annually to foreign trips by Nigerians. As part of efforts to improve the packaging and quality standards of Nigeria’s exports, the Bank said it is also providing funding/investment guarantees to facilitate private sector investments and partnerships in internationally acceptable laboratories and assaying facilities/related infrastructure.  This is in addition to providing funding support towards establishing of conditioning, irradiation and sterilisation facilities to enhance shelf life of perishable goods, as well as production of jute bags, corrugated cartons and flexible packaging materials. Given Nigeria’s huge solid minerals potentials and the logistics challenges that have prevented the realisation of such benefits, the Bank is supporting the promotion of inland waterways operations and bulk export terminal upgrade though its Sealink project.  This is expected to facilitate annual shipment of over 30million tonnes of Solid Minerals valued at US$1.8bn. Having realised the important contributions of the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) sector and the need to integrate many of the small traders into the formal sector, the Bank is partnering with other stakeholders, under the auspices of FSS 2020 to develop the regulatory and legal framework for Factoring business in Nigeria.  This is with a view to providing additional funding window and enhancing financial inclusion of small scale exporters. NEXIM’s intervention is also targeted at state/regional development through its one-state-one export commodity programme, whereby at least N1bn has been earmarked to develop one or two identified exportable commodities towards achieving the Zero Oil Plan of the federal government and promoting inclusive economic growth.  In implementing this programme, the Bank is collaborating and has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Nigerian Incentive Risk Based System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) to deploy interest rebate and risk mitigating instruments in support of projects in the agricultural value chains. Dr Nnanna is an economist and a central banker. He has three decades of post qualification professional experience. He attended William Paterson University in Wayne, New Jersey and University of Houston, in Houston Texas, USA from 1975-80, where he read Finance, Public Policy and Economics. He graduated with B.A, M.A and PhD diplomas. Since graduation, Dr. Nnanna has attended several economic policy oriented training programs. In 2003 and 2004, he studied at Harvard University and participated in the macroeconomic policy and leadership/ organizational management training programs. In 2006, he attended the Bundesbank intensive training program on how to:’Conduct Monetary Policy in a Monetary Zone’. Dr. Nnanna was appointed Deputy Governor (Financial System Stability) Central Bank of Nigeria on February 3, 2015. His work experience includes: a brief period of teaching at the University of Houston at Clear Lake City campus (USA) and at the federal government Polytechnic, Akure (Nigeria) in 1980-82. And from 1982-1989, he worked as a staff economist in the international trade and exchange rate section of the Research Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria. His international work experience started with his engagement by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) from 1989-94. During this period he worked as a staff economist and desk officer in the African Department of the IMF and participated in multilateral surveillance missions to several African countries including: Kenya, South Africa, Lesotho, Sychelles , etc, and assisted the authorities in their economic policy making process and in the implementation of their structural adjustment programs. Dr. Nnanna rejoined the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1994 and was appointed as an Advisor to the Governor of the Central Bank. And in 2001 was appointed the Director of Research and Statistics of the Central Bank of Nigeria. At the Central Bank, he actively participated in the policy formulation process which culminated into the liberalization and deregulation of Nigeria’s financial system in particular and the real productive sectors of the economy as a whole. Dr. Nnanna was appointed the director-general of the West African Monetary Institute in 2006-2008. The Institute is the agency responsible for the actualization of the proposed second West African monetary union. As prelude to the introduction of the West African common currency, he convinced the authorities of the member states of the West African Monetary Zone to use their local currencies in intra-regional trade in order to conserve their scarce foreign exchange reserves and minimize exchange rate risks.