In a bid to beat the April 30 deadline given by the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, for all international airlines to move into the new terminal of the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport (NAIA), the British Airways relocated  its operations to the new terminal as it landed its B777-300 at 4:40 am yesterday. This relocation of the British Airways to the terminal, brings an end to the relocation of the 12 international airlines operating at the airport. The flight had 220 passengers and crew onboard comprising 207 passengers and 13 crew members as well as one infant. Reacting to the relocation, regional general manager, North-Central, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), and also the airport manager of NAIA, Sani Mahmud said the relocation of British Airways to the terminal would lead to full utilization of the facility. He further stated that he was happy that the airline had finally joined others in the terminal, as it would help the authority streamline its international operations. He said:”We are feeling fulfilled, we started with the commissioning of the airport by Mr president on the 20th of December 2018 and we prepared and started receiving flights immediately into the terminal with Asky. Today, all our 12 international airlines have moved in, the last being the British Airways. We are sincerely grateful to government for providing this edifice and you can see from the faces of the passengers that they are all happy to be in a new facility like this. And we want to assure Nigerians and the world that the team in Abuja airport are competent enough to maintain this facility. “The challenges we have faced here in the new terminal are not unsurmountable. There are teething problems in any new facility by ensuring that this is tested and that is corrected but so far so good. The ultimatum given to the airlines worked because we gave them 31st March in the first instance but two or three requested for extension to this time and by the grace of God, all of them have moved in.” Meanwhile, the international terminal manager, Hajara Musa has stated that “the experience in managing this new facility is exciting and marvelous because it is something that if you do every day, every time and you don’t give any gap, you get used to it.’’