Given the status of rice as a major staple in Nigeria, boosting production remains a priority of government and other stakeholders in the country’s agro sector, EMAMEH GABRIEL writes. Efforts by rice farmers in the country to boost the production capacity of rice seems to be paying of already as more species are introduce into the market annually. This has also helped in reducing smuggling and importation of the produce to the country. The effort is by every means, complementing the federal government’s green campaign targeted at ensuring food security and generating job opportunities for the growing army of unemployed youths across the country. Rice is a staple in Nigeria, and the country, according to relevant statistics, consumed almost 7,000,000 metric tons in 2018 amidst the country’s increasing population explosion. The 2018 figure shows an increase of 200,000 metric tons over the previous year. This is in sharp contrast with the country’s current production capacity estimated at about 3, 700,000 tonnes annually, according to the US Department of Agriculture, World Markets and Trade, though these reports have been renounced by the Federal Government in a later report in November 2018 through the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele. No doubt, even at that, and in order to meet up with the pressure on demand, the country has imported huge amounts of the grain the past even as efforts are still on to end the scourge of smuggling. This figure explains why rice smuggling has continued to be a major challenge for the government and local rice farmers, who are in a big fight competing with smuggled rice that floods the country through its porous borders. This is despite the fact that Nigeria is home to one of the world’s most arable land ready for cultivation out of which only about 32 to 34 million hectares out of 82 million hectares of the nation’s arable land, representing 41 per cent, is being cultivated. However, the government’s stance to curb imports to encourage domestic production of rice, has stakeholders in the agricultural sector already taking advantage of the huge rice market in the country and driven by both population and economy growth, experts have projected that rice importation might end in 2020, if the right policies are put in place to encourage rice farmers. On their part, farmers are optimistic to end rice importation. With the target to save the country about N300 billion spent annually on importation of rice, local production of the commodity has increased and new brand of rice introduced into the Nigeria market annually. “This leaves no space for doubt that the country is very near to end importation and boost its export potentials thereby competing global with rice exporters like Thailand and Indian,” said Retson Tedheke, national coordinator, NFGCS. Tedheke explained that under NFGSC, they have created a rice value chain to realise this because the competition in rice farming is increasing and Nigeria alone is already a big market for the grain. He said with most states in the country already cultivating rice in commercial value, the country is heading towards self-sufficiency in rice production and exports that will boost its foreign exchange. “We started with a couple of hectares and today, our brand (Gaate Gold) is already in the market speaking for itself. Now we are looking at about 500 to 1000 hectares of land and we are expanding as long as the necessary support, which we are yet to get from the government, is available. “The beauty of it all is that we are exploring the entire value chain to create jobs for the locals here.” Tedheke explained that they are already putting the required infrastructure in place to ensure an-all-year round rice farming. “Apart from the ones available, we already have five rice mills under construction and soon they will kick off with the milling capacity of 20 tonnes per day or a minimum of 10, amounting to two or more trailers daily and sixty or more in a month,” he said. An average rice yield, according to him, is estimated at 3.5 tons per hectare compared to seven to nine tons of rice per hectare gotten by farmers in other parts of the world. ‘‘This is why they can sell cheaper than those produced locally. This is where the government must come in and that will be the easiest way to end importation or smuggling. ”We have been talking to the government to help with improved seedlings and more so, for the value chain to be sustainable, it should be supported by business modules. “We are already looking at a situation where we provide quality seeds (our golden brand) and other aides for farmers around and at the end of production, we mop them up and process. It’s going to be a long chain that will benefit communities around here and beyond. ‘‘It doesn’t just end there,’’ said the NFGCS coordinator who harped on the health benefits of eating locally produced rice. He disclosed that investigations have shown that rice imported to Nigeria stay up to a decade or more and are preserved with chemicals that are capable of causing cancer. Ogbeide Peter, the farm manager expressed optimism while calling on government to adopt policies that will effectively promote local rice production in the country, adding that there is a bottleneck in processing harvested rice. ‘‘Nigerian business environment is very competitive and it is difficult without government support. It must not necessary be loan but subsidies. ‘‘Here, we are already milling but you need a machine that will take whole process at once. 200 tons per day that can process eight tons per hour, clean, remove husk and de-stone. These machines are very expensive in the open market but the government can make them available to us at subsidised rates. ‘‘This will help reduce the cost of production as well as reduce the market price. Most people finance 100 per cent of their businesses and this is not supposed to be so,’’ said Peter who noted that smuggling and importation of rice will continue unless the government looked inwards and engaged major stakeholders in rice production. He feared that such practice is even capable of crippling investments in the sector. ‘‘For instance, we are selling at N8, 000 per 2kg bag of Gaate Gold. The price is a bit high. This is because the cost of production is crazy and you need to make profit or at worst, get back the value of your initial investment. ‘‘Nigeria is a big market, if importers are still interested in our market, then it is the responsibility of the government to tell them to bring down their technology and produce here. When this is done, we are not only going to create jobs but would as well be sharing technology, which will be a win-win situation for all of us. Economic analyst, Okoduga Jimoh, believes that local investment has the potential of boosting the agriculture industry in Nigeria but fears that political farmers dominate the sector and though the current administration has prioritised agriculture, it needs to up the game to make farming attractive to the people. The Buhari government has, in the last four years, invested so much in rice farming through the Central Bank Anchor Borrowers’ Programme to cut down supply from outside the country nonetheless, rice importation through the back door, remains a huge burden on the government and a big loss to the country’s GDP.