The Life Pension Bill recently passed into law by members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly and the brouhaha that followed seemed to have died down. OSA OKHOMINA in this analysis unearths the salient issues that influenced Governors Dickson’s stands against the controversial bill. Last week, media spaces across the country were awashed with a controversial bill said to be hurriedly passed into law by the leadership of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly. The bill, according to political watchers, was one of fastest bill and dubious ever passed into law by any parliament in the world. Twenty-two out of the twenty-four members of the Bayelsa Assembly are card carrying and loyal members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the passage of the controversial Life Pension Bill for Governor, Deputy Governor and State Assembly members had their blessings. Sadly, the support and blessings of the PDP and the State Executive led by Governor Serial Dickson was however withdrawn and the Assembly paid the Supreme price of loyalty with their image and ego dented before the Bayelsa people. Hon. Kombowei Benson, the Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, was made to learn a bitter lesson in politics, few months after his defeat at the National Assembly poll, with the refusal of the Governor to sign the controversial bill. The Governor of Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson, however back out of the plan and declined assent to the bill seeking pension for former lawmakers from Bayelsa State as proposed and passed by the Assembly The State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, quoted the Governor as having said that he conveyed the decision to decline assent to the Bill in a letter to the Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly on Monday. The Governor held consultations with the Assembly members in his country home of Toru-Orua, where he explained his reason for declining assent. Iworiso-Markson quoted the governor as having said that the bill was inconsistent with Section 124 of the Constitution òf the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. Governor Dickson said that he was of the view that the State Assembly lacked the powers to expand the categories of public servants who should be entitled to pension. He stressed that he had to withhold assent to the bill because the state, which has been bedevilled with a lot of challenges in spite of its low internally generated revenue base and unstable earnings from the oil economy, was the only state out of Nigeria’s 36 states to come up with such a bill. The Governor stressed that he was guided in the decision by the principle that government should not be for a select class of the privileged in the society, and would not discard it over seven years into his administration. He said that the lawmakers and indeed the Nigerian populace would attest to the fact that all decisions of his administration were guided by the strong urge to protect the public interest and promote the general good. “The provisions of this Bill granting pension to members of Bayelsa State House òf Assembly and the extension of same to former members of the Assembly and Bayelsa indigenes who served in the Old Rivers State House of Assembly, is inconsistent with Section 124 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. “I am not convinced about the legality of this Bill which seeks to expand the categories of persons entitled to pension. While I agree that the Assembly can adjust the quantum of pension payable to persons entitled to pension, I am not convinced that the House has powers to add to the categories of pensionable public officers. “Evidently, there is no record of any other state in this country that has expanded the categories of pensionable public officers to include lawmakers.  I do not agree that Bayelsa which is coping with all the myriads of issues and challenges, with our low internally generated revenue base and the unpredictable oil economy, should be the first to initiate this, said Dickon. He continues: “It is my philosophy that government should not be for a select few. In the last seven years, my actions and decisions which have sometimes elicited opposition from the elite who have been feeding fat on the resources of our State, have been marked by this singular disposition of mine. “And I do not intend at this point to abandon that. Rather I intend to do more and to consolidate on the policies and actions which have been taken to protect the vulnerable. Therefore, I am unable to assent to this bill which in my view aims to expand and consolidate the class interest of a privileged few.” Dickson had in the statement maintained that the quest to protect the vulnerable against the privileged few inspired the populist programmes of his administration which include the Bayelsa Health Insurance Scheme with over 150, 000 beneficiaries, the Education Trust Fund, the scholarship programmes that are supporting our young people in their studies both locally and outside the country, the various empowerment programmes, support for the aged, the most vulnerable, massive employment, public housing and a number of other social intervention  programmes which are already taking root. He commended the leadership of the house for the healthy relationship with the executive organ and the high level of productivity as shown by the high number of bills and motions passed during the period insisting that their place in history was guaranteed. He said that notwithstanding his decision to decline assent to the bill, he still held the Assembly in very high esteem. The Governor also noted that he had to set up a committee on the contributory pension scheme to make it workable so that the assembly members and other appointees at the state and local government levels who are interested can take advantage of it. The Governor urged the Assembly members to liaise with the committee adding that if legislative action was required after the work of the committee, he would readily communicate with them. While some stakeholders commended Governor Seriake Dickson over his refusal to sign the bill, others said the action of the Governor is a clear departure from the existing relationship cultivated between the loyal Assembly members and the Governor Dickson administration. Practising lawyers under the Nigerian Bar Association, Alabama Branch commended the Bayelsa Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson over his refusal to assent to the controversial bill granting life pension to members of the State House of Assembly. The bill, which triggered controversy among civil society groups, political parties led by the All Progressive Congress (APC) and Elders of the State, who condemned the action and asking the State Governor not to assent to the Bill, has continued to attract reaction. The Chairperson of the NBA, Sagbama branch, Barr. Dise Sheila Ogbise, commended the position of the Governor, saying his disposition was that of patriotism which has created a sense of belonging among the less privilege in the state. “We want to categorically say that we as a Branch, commend the Governor for this. It shows that the Governor has the heart and interest of the people of  Bayelsa State.” “It could be recalled that when the news of the bill purporting to place members of Bayelsa State’s Fifth Assembly on life pension, made by the law makers themselves broke out, the branch amongst other stakeholders condemned such bill and we are glad that the Governor refused to assent such bill which is anti-people.” “We restate at this point that the House of Assembly lacks legislative competence, moral and legal cum constitutional power to make such fiscal bill. The bill is an accident against the provision of Section 124 particularly subsections 5 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “ “We join the Governor and other stakeholders to condemn such bill and we further urge the State of House of Assembly to listen to the cry of the people who they profess to serve and enjoin them not to resort to an override powers they possess to still pass the bill to law. The 2/3 majority of the House of Assembly is not superior to the interest of the masses.” “Lastly, we enjoin members of the House of Assembly of Bayelsa State to always remember that the position they occupy is not to be used to secure their future or that of group of individuals. The position is to be used to protect and secure the future of Bayelsans as a whole. Public interest is Paramount to any personal or individual interest no matter how seemingly right the motive is.” Since his assumption, Kombowei Benson, who is a third term member from Southern Ijaw Constituency Four, has left no one in doubt about his capability to steer the ship of the Assembly along the shore created for it by the Executive Arm led by Governor Seriake Dickson. Some of the controversial approvals, made under the leadership of the Speaker Kombowei Benson, include the 2017 N40 billion loan for the state government to complete ongoing projects. And another N50billion loan approval few weeks ago for the completion of projects as requested by the administration of Gov. Dickson less than eight months to the end of his administration and few months to November 2nd Governorship election. These approvals, and many others from the State Assembly, seem to have pitched the people of the State against the PDP administrations in the state. For the records, the leadership of the Assembly under Hon. Kombowei Benson, has passed more executive bills than private member bills. The Legislators, who during the end of the last session of the 5th Assembly led by Hon. Kombowei Benson, declared that they have performed well with the passage of 37 bills and adoption of 27 motions with other BIlls at various stages. According to a statement issued and signed by the Media Assistant to the Bayelsa Assembly Speaker, Mr. Aotendeike Boloigha, the 37 Bill passed into law were part of the 48 executive and sponsored Bills received by members in three years. According to Speaker Kombowei Benson, the commendable performance of the members of the State House of Assembly was due to resilience and doggedness, ‘‘an all-inclusive leadership that gave rise to teamwork which saw the passage of the 37 bills, this is in addition to 27 motions”. The passage of bills and motions, particularly the resolutions approving numerous questionable loans, approvals and supportive permissions to the State Government showed made the assembly the best but was not to be so when recent passage of the Life Pension Bill was thrown out by the Governor and thrown the members of the “performing” Assembly against the people of the State. While some persons claimed the Bill became necessary due to the fact that most of the State Assembly members would not return to the House in the next session. In the Bill, leadership of the House had approved N500, 000 post-service monthly pension to the speakers of the assembly, while deputy speakers will receive N200,000. Members are to get N100, 000. The bill, specifically provided that former lawmakers, including persons of Bayelsa origin who served in the old Rivers State, would enjoy life pensions for their services in the state as applicable to former presidents, vice-presidents, governors and deputy governors across the country. To qualify for the speakership pension of N500, 000 monthly, the official must have served for two years and above. Pension bill, unspeakable crime against the people- APC. Although the bill had already been crushed by the executive in the state, the fear that leadership of the assembly might make further move to return it is already generating fears. The following the development, the APC in Bayelsa state had at the wake of the controversial bill described the move by the PDP led house as evil. ‘‘APC has been at the forefront of efforts to enthrone a regime of better life for the people of Bayelsa State. And we have led a robust opposition to the current system of anti-people governance in the state for close to eight years. ‘‘Regarding this latest move by the House of Assembly, we again say that the idea is avaricious, wicked, and insensitive. By proposing such a law, the lawmakers have merely portrayed themselves as a people who feel no concern for the feelings of their suffering constituents, the APC had warned, adding that Dickson was a party to the botched plot. The party had advised the legislature to withdraw the obnoxious ambition and avoid the appalling crime against the people of Bayelsa State. The chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, Preye Aganabahas berated members of the House of Assembly for passing a bill which advocates life pension for them. Aganaba described the Life Pension Bill as “self-centred, insensitive, preposterous and a sad reflection of the inordinate desire of the lawmakers for self-enrichment”. A statement by his media aide, Kariebi Prekeben, said the bill was a direct assault on the sensibilities of majority of the people who lived below poverty line. The passing of the bill last Wednesday unfolds a new chapter on the insatiable greed of the legislative arm. Among all the laws passed by the House since the inception of the current Assembly, the preferential Life Pension Bill is the most controversial and insensitive.” Meanwhile, residents have also condemned the development, calling it a regressive move and a misplaced priority to further rob the people their common wealth. They have planned to stage a public protest against the State House of Assembly. A resident, Fidel Boboye, described the move as greed in the highest places and wondered why such political office holders with the wealth and money they had amassed still awarded life pensions to themselves. Another resident Preye Alegbe, said: “Is this not too much for these persons even as there are many graduates out there without good jobs? Why can’t the legislature channel these legislations to areas where the younger generations can benefit more?” On its part, the Ijaw Youth Council caution Bayelsa State House Of Assembly Not To Take the calmness of Youths in the State for granted The Speaker of the Mobile Parliament of the Most revered Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide, Rt. Hon. Eldred Digimie Pogonyo, has called on the Speaker and members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly (BSHA) to have a rethink in the purported anti-people act of forging an alien law such as “life pension for past, present, plus future legislators” of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly (BSHA), which is geared towards serving their myopic, parochial, inordinate, selfish ambition and ulterior motives. Bayelsa Speaker’s many battle over alleged corruption While the dust raised over the controversial pension bill is yet to be settled, there is already rising tension in the Bayelsa State House of Assembly over a petition filed before the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) by the member representing Brass Constituency 1, Hon. Isreal Sunny-Goli, against the Speaker, Hon. Kombowei Benson, the Clerk of the House, Mr. Aaron Timiye and two other accountants over alleged diversion and embezzlement of over a billion naira in allowances, constituency tour and office maintenance allowances in the last four years. In the petition, Sunny-Goli stated that although he endured the show of disdain to his office as an Assembly member and his constituent in Brass Constituency 1 by the Speaker on the direct orders of the State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, the alleged diversion of his allowances started from 2015 and has continued till date. He condemned the grand conspiracy by the Speaker, Clerk, Head of Account Department, Mr. Koroye Stephen and Former HOD, Accounts, Mr. Thompson Tamaradubo, to intimidate him and deprive him of his legitimate financial benefits from the Assembly, and further perpetrate large scale financial fraud on the funds belonging to the Assembly.