The eighth Annual Nigerian Investors Day in London, organised by the Association of Assets Custodians of Nigeria (AACN), has reinforced the interests of investors and other operators across the global economic spectrum towards the Nigerian economy. At the end of the one-day conference, with the theme, ‘Nigeria:The Economics of the Capital Market,’ participants reiterated optimism about Nigeria’s economic potentials as a major investment destination. The mood at the London event on May 9, 2019, took a bullish mode when news filtered in that Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele who was present at the event had been re-nominated for a second term in office. Setting the ball rolling, president of AACN, Mrs. Taiwo Sonola, emphasised that “The association is committed to the promotion of portfolio investments in Nigeria, noting that “The potentials of the Nigerian economy are enormous and it is important that the opportunities are showcased globally.” She assured that the association would maintain the reputation of the Annual Nigerian Investors Day as a veritable platform to promote the Nigerian economy, adding that the next edition would be reinvigorated and focused on a salient issue on Africa’s biggest oil producer, with the purpose of unlocking opportunities in such an area. The 2019 conference focused on investor confidence, processes, infrastructure, products, governance, regulations and market developments. “The aim is to build foreign investor confidence and provide a platform for foreign investors to network with the Nigerian capital market regulators, operators with particular focus on custodians, fund managers, broker dealers, and regulators and also provide a forum for the promotion of custody business in Nigeria.It also provided opportunities for participants to air their views and challenges,” Sonola said. Emefiele commended AACN for organising the forum, saying this fits into the apex bank and the federal government’s goal of making Nigeria Africa’s top investment destination.