To curb the activities of criminals, the Nigerian Army has banned the use of motorcycles in Zamfara, Kano, Katsina, Sokoto, Kaduna, Kebbi and Niger States where “Exercise Harbin Kunama” has been launched to tackle kidnapping and banditry. The acting director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, said yesterday that the Army authorities took the decision following the discovery that armed bandits, kidnappers, and their collaborators use motorcycles to perpetrate their heinous acts mostly around forests in the affected states. Col. Musa said: “The Nigerian Army (NA) over time has observed the use of motorcycles by armed bandits, kidnappers, criminal elements and their collaborators as enablers to perpetrate their heinous crimes, especially in the states within the North West geopolitical zone of the country. “This informed the decision and directive to ban the use of motorcycles within the hinterland particularly around the forests where the armed bandits, criminals and kidnappers hibernate and all around where troops are conducting operations alongside other security agencies,” he said. He said that while the ban may cause some inconveniences to some law-abiding citizens in the affected areas, “there is a need to use all means possible to stop the dastardly activities of these bandits across the North Western part of the country.” He, therefore, called on the general public, particularly in the North West and some parts of North Central zone where “Exercise Harbin Kunama” is ongoing to bear with the Nigerian Army as concerted efforts are being made to combat the insecurity within the states. The Army spokesman said: “In this wise, it is hereby reiterated that the use of motorcycles remain banned within the forest areas in Kano, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna, Kebbi and Niger States. “Anyone caught using motorcycles within the named areas will be taken for an armed bandit, criminal, and kidnapper with dire consequences,” he stated. He enjoined the governments of the affected states to communicate the ban on the use of motorcycles in the named areas and enforce it in conjunction with the security agencies. Bandits Kill 50 In Zamfara Meanwhile, suspected bandits in a series of attacks on some villages during the weekend killed 50 people in Zamfara State. LEADERSHIP gathered that the bandits ransacked Kunkele village in Gusau local government area where 20 persons lost their lives and Dangurgu village in Maru local government area where 30 people were killed. The Emir of Dansadau, Alhaji Husaini Umar, who cried out on the bandits’ attack on Dangurgu village said that the gunmen moving on motorcycles with sophisticated guns ransacked the entire community. He said that the gunmen opened fire on the villagers indiscriminately and killed several of them and injured several others. The monarch, therefore, appealed for more commitment by the security agents to check the menace. But the state police command spokesman, Mr. Mohammed Shehu, said that the attack on Dangurgu claimed only one life.  