The need to re-brand the culture and tourism sector in order to shift from the total focus from oil as the major source of revenue to the government and diversify into areas like culture and tourism has become inevitable. This was the major focus of the director general, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe who is leading this drive with a mandate to re-position Nigeria on the path of sustainable growth using culture and tourism. According to Runsewe this informed the recent trip by the NCAC management to Dubai, to understudy how Dubai was able to transform their country using Culture and tourism. To bring this vision of  re-branding the country to reality using culture, tourism and art,  Runsewe invited the major payers in the country’s culture and tourism industry to brainstorm and pledge their commitment  towards actualising this initiative. Meanwhile at the event over the weekend in Abuja, the leading private sector  players pledged their commitment by signing to work together towards actualising this objective. Earlier, Runsewe explained that the objective of the trip to Dubai is to expose the management team of NCAC to cultural tourism management using the Dubai model as focus. “Travel, see the sights, see what other people are doing with their culture and tourism, come back and see how to do something with ours, market ours to the world, attract funds, grow the economy using culture and tourism to create jobs and attract tourist to Nigeria. ”I believe this trip is a great opportunity to reschedule our approach to Culture and tourism in Nigeria, it is the beginning of this big secret in Africa to be starting from the sight seeing of Dubai, to Global Village, Dolphin, Miracle Garden and so many places we visited. It tells the story that this is the sector that will save the economy of so many African countries. I have seen where people have brought artificial approach to the endeavours of life and turn it to economic strength. “ The next phase of the project is to take 36 commissioners of Culture and tourism and the top players and stakeholders in the culture tourism industry to Dubai to understudy how Dubai was able to transform its culture and tourism potential into a gold mine. “Dubai Mall alone has over 180 restaurants, over 5000 car parking facility, a hotel right in the middle of the sea. To me, this is a call to a new beginning to Africa and Nigeria must take the challenge first. We are a people that believe we can do things first and I believe, if they can do it here, we can do it and even better. The time is now as we cannot afford to wait any longer. The unborn Nigerians, the future generation of this country will not forgive us and posterity will not forgive us if we do not make amend and effect the changes now. So I employ all stakeholders to come together for us to make a total change in this sector”. Pledging their support and commitment to this laudable initiative, the president of the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), Alhaji Saleh Rabo promised that the body will work with the management of NCAC to actualise this initiative. Rabo said, “the first step towards this initiative is the creation of a stand alone ministry of culture and tourism. “The current Ministry of Information and Culture is too big for one minister to supervise. The minister is too busy managing matters relating to information and may not have time for promotion of  tourism sector policies. In his contribution, the president of National Association of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA), Mr Bankole Bernard stated that the sector needs full government support to achieve the desired result. He observed that the absence of a national carrier is militating against the growth of culture and tourism industry which will ride on aviation to grow. In her remarks, the chief executive officer of BBOG Travel and Tours and president of Nigeria Tour Operators (NATOP), Hajia Bilikisu Abdul pledged the support of NATOP in actualising this vision. She stressed the need for the media to always promote the positive things about Nigeria instead of the negatives which may not encourage tourism growth. Also, the chairman of Board of Trustees (BOT) of NATOP and chairman of Remlords Tour and Car Hire Services, Mr Nkereuwem Onung applauded Runsewe on the initiative, stressing that government should be at the forefront of promoting culture and tourism. He decried the leap service always paid by the government to the growth and development of the sector in the country. Onung restated the need for a stand alone ministry of Tourism and culture, saying the minister is too busy with other areas like information and do not have time for culture and tourism.