All is set for the first transport sector awards billed to take place in Abuja later this month as the organizers of the event, yesterday introduced the maiden edition of the Transport and Logistics Excellence Awards, (TLEA) in a press conference. Speaking at the press conference, the Chief executive officer, Motor Vehicle Academy, Abuja, Prince Segun Obayendo said “This award was conceived with the sole aim of recognising individuals, public and private corporations and any entity deserving of the recognition which you’ll agree with me haven’t been done much justice.” He further explained that “the Motor Vehicle Administration Academy (MVAA) is the arrowhead of this project. MVAA prides itself as the numero uno in delivering cutting edge technologies and pioneering the Computerised Vehicle Inspection. The academy provides quality training and support on Motor Vehicle Administration Processes. “However, the scope of this award is much more holistic. For the first time in Nigeria, the country is going to experience the beauty, glamour and sophistication of a truly authentic transportation sector award comprising all the modes of transportation: Sea, Land, Air and Rail. “We stand to be corrected, but never has one been done to celebrate professionals, technocrats and decision makers in all modes of transportation as TLEA hopes to achieve.” It’s an ambitious project, we agree. A novelty if we must say. However, the TLEA team is much committed to showcasing the fme blend of opportunities, resources, gains and frontiers that have been broken in pursuing a safer way of transportation for the benefits of the public. Speaking on the reason for the awards, Obayendo explained that “First, we want to be intentional about showcasing what some of giant strides these nominees have made in the sector. It is no secret that the transportation sector contributes about 60 percent to the overall GDP of the country. ” However, either through deliberate attempt to subjugate these facts or that they are improperly articulated, many who deserve the credits hardly get it. So, the TLEA Award is an opportunity to set the score right, to give honour to whom it is due and also to showcase how the entire economy has been made better off with these noble contributions. “Second, we also want the public to be aware of the transportation resources at their disposal. Some of the nominees have deployed technology, create seamless process for operations and also opened up opportunities that can be maximised by players in the industry. As a result of this award, so many people will know how much the transportation sector in the country has evolved to compete favourably with nations in similar clime. ” Finally, the TLEA awards is an opportunity for us to give back to the society. MVAA, as stated earlier, is the pioneer of the Computerised Vehicle Inspection in the country. Currently operational in over 10 (Ten States in the country, we have witnessed firsthand how much people value safety and would go to great lengths to ensure that their safety is guaranteed. As a major player in the industry, it is our corporate responsibility to ensure that as they embrace the Computerised Vehicle Inspection for vehicle safety on the roads, they are also exposed to other areas of safety that can be utilised to ensure a holistic balanced lifestyle.”