In this interview with KUNLE OLASANMI, human rights lawyer who is based in the United State, Emmanuel Ogebe, speaks on human rights abuses in the country and the conviction of former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. What is your assessment of Nigeria’s human rights record? We sent a fact finding mission to the six geo-political zones in the country on human rights and we noted with concern, the terrorist attack in Gombe state last month, where a policeman and a civil defence officer used a vehicle to attack the procession of Boys Brigade while on Easter parade. It is an alarming situation because it is similar to ISIS attacks that we have witnessed in recent times in Paris. But this time around, it was not ISIS, it was the personnel of the federal government that carried out a terrorist attack on defenceless citizens. So, it is a situation that warrants deep investigation for which a comprehensive report should be given. Another issue i wish to talk about is the fulani herdsmen, who massacred over 200 people in Plateau state in June last year, including several of my relatives are still occupying that territory. It is the height of impunity that villagers are in the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps and Fulani herdsmen are occupying their territory and nobody has been arrested. Infact, one of the villagers in the IDP camps told of how she went back to the house in the village to get food because she was hungry and she knew that she has food there and met a fulani woman who asked her what she wanted and she said it is her house and she needed to get food but the fulani woman gave her food and told her to leave immediately because her husband must not come back to meet her because he will kill her. Several months after the massacre, their land are still occupied by strangers and nothing has been done to bring them to justice.  Many have condemned the conviction of the immediate past CJN, what is your reaction to it? One of the things we also noted was the injustice meted out to the immediate past Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. I have said without fear of contradiction that the trial of Jesus Christ was slightly fairer and followed better due process than the trial of Justice Onnoghen. It is a travesty of the highest order that 2000 years after Christ, the saviour of the world, the federal government could sit down and orchestrate a kangaroo trial  that was even worse than the trial of Christ. Whether we like it or not, in the trial of Christ, there were jurisdictional issue because the Jewish Council said they do not have powers to impose death penalty. They transferred the case to Pilate, Pilate transferred it to Herod and Herod referred it back to Pilate before a decision was taken. Pilate had the decency of saying I have not found this man guilty but because we had a process of amnesty where I can release one prisoner, so, he told the people to  make a choice. So, due process was followed. In the case of the former CJN, the Code of Conduct Tribunal, CCT, overruled itself in an earlier similar case he had decided upon. I have practiced law for over a quarter of a century, I don’t know what that man practiced but I know it is not law because his decision was unknown to law. The whole proceeding was a sham. Witnesses contradicted themselves and at the end of the day you still convicted the man. The whole trial was comedy of errors. Having looked at that, one is deeply concerned that the Constitution has been violated and the rule of law abused.  President Mohammadu Buhari forwarded the name of Justice Tanko Mohammad as the Acting CJN to the NJC, what is your view? It is sad that the federal government went ahead to undermine the unity of Nigeria by refusing to appoint the next most senior among the Justices of the Supreme Court as the Acting CJN but went further to illegally extend the tenure of the man who is currently occupying the position. The law is very clear on the appointment of the CJN. The NJC recommends to the President and not the other way round. What the NJC had said from the statement I read in the media is not what the law says. The NJC said the president recommended to them and they have approved, so, they have turned the 1999 Constitution on its head. What is being practised now is no longer law, it is witchcraft and necromancy because no one can’t look at this and say it makes any sense. I’ve never heard of a situation where it is the President who recommends to the NJC who should be a judge because that defeats the whole essence of separation of powers. It defeats the whole purpose of the independence of the judiciary. Infact, under the Constitution, the president has no power to decide who becomes a judge, he does not have that power! The Constitution says when NJC recommends, the Senate confirms. What had happened in the case of Justice Onnoghen is very sad. I am shocked and disappointed that the NJC allowed the president to usurp their constitutional powers. What NJC allowed could be equated to a situation where the president will go to the National Assembly and be making laws for the country. If NJC can allow the president to appoint a judge without recourse to them, then, they have lost all credibility and should be dissolved and let the president continue to appointment judges and remove as he wishes. The second crime NJC committed was to receive recommendation from the president.  They are the ones to send recommendation to the President and the President does not have the power to approve or disapprove. Our judiciary is being downtrodden and trampled upon by the Executive Arm of government. Each and everyone of us, especially stakeholders in the judiciary must take a position today  Still on the Onnoghen saga,are you satisfied with the response of senior lawyers and other stakeholders in the judiciary? There has been signal failure from the Bar in the response to this grand assault on the judiciary. The leadership of the NBA adopted the right position when they said they did not recognize the removal of Justice Onnoghen because it was unconstitutional and i believe that is the proper thing to do. I believe the NJC should have also towed that same line. From my interraction with senior colleagues and others who have been outspoken, I are that we have people who are not ready and willing to defend principles and institution.  We have people who are operating a system but are not ready to protect the system and play by the rules. If I were Onnoghen, I won’t step down because the president appointed the next person illegally. I will defend the institution because it is not about me as an individual. The president has no power to remove the president of the senate. There is no court in the land that can order that the President should remove the president of the senate, it won’t work. If the president can remove the senate president, why should he be able to remove the head of the judiciary who even enjoys greater powers than that of the senate president. Impunity and travesty is what is happening in the land and not many people are speaking. There are so many senior advocates and many others who have made so much money from the system but are not speaking up to protect it.