Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has insisted  that the law creating four newly created emirate councils out of the present Kano Emirate Council had already been gazetted and no amount of pressure or threat of violence would make his government reverse it. Ganduje made this comment yesterday while presenting appointment letters to the four newly appointed Emirs at the Sani Abacha Indoor Sports Complex, Kofar Mata, Kano. He said, “We have realised that there are serious moves to disrupt peace and tranquillity in the state  through violent  protests  in and around Kano, but that would not deter my stance over the creation of the new emirate councils. “The new emirates have come to stay; no amount of threats would make us revert on the creation of the new Emirate Councils and anybody found wanting by fomenting violence or stiring up trouble would be decisively dealt with.” According to him, the emirs are expected to play a huge role in the community to ensure that the maintenance  of law and order at all levels is given top priority. Governor Ganduje further stated that, traditionally, the Emirate Councils are responsible for the sustenance of key sectors such as the agricultural economy and health development of their respective domains. “These roles you played before should be revitalised to ensure the quick growth of their domains and also do more in ensuring that all grown-ups go to school and to advise farmers to work tirelessly in  boosting the agricultural potentialities of their respective communities and the state in general,” he said. Ganduje also called on Ullamas and District Heads  to embark on serious prayers to ensure peace and development and also to enlighten the people on the actual mission of the government in the creation of the new Emirate Councils, and not to see it as politically motivated. “What we are doing is simply revisiting the historical background of the new Emirate Councils which had enjoyed similar status in the past if not for the fact that  the colonialists  tampered with their historical status,” he explained. Ganduje said Kano’s  existence for over  800 years was an act  of God and that He is the one who has protected the traditional entity all these while, adding that it is the same God that allowed the creation of these four new Emirate Councils. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that Governor Ganduje had on Wednesday  signed into law a bill for the creation of four new emirates for Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi, all of which used to be districts under the Kano Emirate Council. Ganduje, who signed the bill on the same day it was passed and transmitted to him by the Kano State House of Assembly, said emirs would be appointed for the new emirates immediately. The amendment of the existing chieftaincy law was at the instance of a petition filed by one Ibrahim Chambers who argued that some traditional rulers in Kano State ought to be elevated to the status of emirs. Many believe that the move to create more emirate councils in Kano State is a ploy by the Umar Ganduje-led government to reduce the influence of the Kano Emirate, currently headed by HRH Muhammad Sanusi II, former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Ganduje and Sanusi are reported to have fallen out over yet-to- be disclosed issues. A probe is currently underway by the Kano State anti-corruption agency into the finances of the Kano Emirate, a move, many believe, is targeted at removing Sanusi from the throne. Reports say Sanusi did not support Ganduje’s bid to be re-elected for a second term in office. In the February governorship election in the state, Ganduje lost significantly in Kano metropolis, an area largely controlled by the Emir of Kano.  Why We Deployed More Men To Emir’s Palace Security was beefed up around the palace of the emir of Kano yesterday after placards-carrying protesters tried to protest the splintering of the Kano Emirate into five. The Kano State Police Public Relations Officer DSP Haruna Abdullahi said that the deployment of armed policemen to man strategic locations in the state capital was aimed at averting the impending protest allegedly planned by some hoodlums in the state. LEADERSHIP Sunday findings revealed that as a result of rumours of planned violent protest by some people believed to be loyalists of the Emir of Kano, security was beefed up in some areas around the state capital to avert the break down of law and order. Security operatives, especially policemen, were deployed to keep vigil at the Emir’s Palace and the main entrance of Government House in order to block protesters from causing mayhem in the state. According to eye witnesses, about10 Police Hilux Vans, which conveyed security personnel to the palace, were stationed at Kofar Kudu emir’s palace. Another group was directed to  take position at the Residence of the Chief of Staff to the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi, along Iyaka road. Another 10 police patrol vehicles were stationed at the main entrance of Kano State Government House, while one patrol van was kept at the personal residence of the incumbent Galadiman Kano, Alhaji Abbas Sanusi. More security personnel were stationed at the main entrance of Audu Bako State Secretariat. One of the policemen at the Secretariat told journalists that they were stationed at the secretariat as early as 6am. This security beef-up may not be unconnected to the planned presentation of letters of appointment to the four new emirs by the state governor yesterday. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that after handing out the appointment letters to the beneficiaries, the governor told them to do everything possible to live peacefully with their subjects and to bring development to the grassroots.  Mixed Reactions Trail Kano Emirate Split Expectedly, there have been divergent opinions following the governor’s move to break up Kano Emirate, with many people supporting and opposing the move. A one-time commissioner of finance and chairman, Kano State Land Use Act Committee,  Dr Ibrahim Dan’azumi Gwarzo,  described the Kano State House of Assembly move to create additional emirates in the state as a step in the right direction. Gwarzo told our correspondent that the state assembly had all the constitutional powers to take such a decision for the collective  good of the people yearning for such emirates. He said, “Contrary to the views of the opposition,  I personally see this as a positive development not as a ploy to frustrate or intimidate the  Emir Sanusi because this issue has been lingering for years and every one is quite aware that one day people’s interest most naturally rang supreme even as other regimes failed  to make it see the light of the day” Gwarzo, who is the chairman, Board of Directors, Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi, Lagos, observed that when places like Kazaure, Hadejia, Gumel and Ringim Emirates were carved out of the old Kano as a result of the creation of Jigawa State in 1991, it turned out  to be a good omen to the people of those emirates considering the level of development in those areas today. He stated that given the position of Kano and how its population is daily increasing, one would feel that there is nothing  more worthwhile  than to have additional emirates because that would even lesson the pressure and tension faced by the Emir of Kano on daily basis due the number of people trooping in and out of his palace seeking one form of intervention or another. He noted that there are divergent views with regards  to the emirates creation; however, members of the state Assembly should be allowed to discharge their statutory function without any hindrance. Also, a special adviser to Governor  Ganduje on religious matters, Alhaji Ali Baba Agama Lafiya, said the creation of new emirates was not new as it happened when the late Abubakar Rimi was the governor of the state after similar agitations for the creation of additional emirate councils were made. According to him,  many subsequent state administrations that came after Rimi also tried to split the emirate but failed to actualise the dream. The governor’s aide said when the present administration came into being, the agitations heightened and people from Bichi, Gaya, Rano, and Karaye came out openly to remonstrate with Governor Ganduje to pave the way for the creation of more emirate councils with the same power of control and influence like that of  the Emir of Kano. “I think contrary to the erroneous view of some people – that the said agitations which had been lingering for years is the product of this government – is not true. Even with the recent moves, one can conveniently judge from the body language of most people that they are fully in support of the Emirates creation,” he said. Alhaji Baba Lafiya dispelled the insinuation that the development is politically motivated. “What the opposition are saying is not the reflection of what is going on. In fact, even before the legislative arm finished its work, people had already started trooping  to the State Assembly Complex to express their support  one hundred percent to the members for the laudable initiative,” he said. The SA on religious matters to Governor Ganduje added that  the government will not revert its decision on the issue. “We are going ahead with the plan since it is based on the yearnings and aspirations of the people of the affected areas; and because of the interest one single person, the interest of many people won’t be jeopardised,” he said. When our correspondent contacted the Walin Kano, Alhaji Mahe Bashir Wali, over the development, he said the Emirate  Council would not rush to make a statement, and that when the tome is ripe, the Council would respond appropriately. He said what the Palace desired was for the people to live peacefully for its through peaceful co-existence that everything will work according to plan. Earlier, a Kano lawmaker, Hon Sule Gwarzo had instituted an action seeking the court to restrain the Kano State government or its allies from taking any further action towards creating four more  emirates. Consequently, an order of interim injunction was granted by  the court presided over by Justice Nasiru Saminu directing all the parties in the suit to maintain status quo pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. The order directed the defendants and respondents to halt the publication and release of the law assented on May 8, 2019, pending the hearing and determination of Motion on notice. It also restrained the fourth defendant/respondents from appointing or recognising any purported Emirs in Kano State, pending hearing and determination of the Motion on notice. Another Kano resident, Malam  Hamza Ado Daneji, in an interview condemned the action of the state government in creating new Emirate Councils because, according to him, it would bring disunity among the people living in the Emirate. He said the action had political undertones as it was aimed at wreaking the powers and influence of Emir Sanusi II. “Everyone knew quite well that the state government had no such plans on ground if not for the fact that it is accusing the Emir of being partisan during the governorship election,” he said. He said that most of the people, especially those living in the urban centres were totally against establishing new emirates, adding that people like him would continue to condemn the act until it is reversed by the government or through the instrumentality of the court. 