Following the violence that trailed the last general elections in Rivers State,  the House of Representatives’ Joint Committee on Army, Police, Human Rights and Justice, was in Port Harcourt, the state capital to investigate the development. There have since been accusations and counter-accusations between the state government and security operatives on what went wrong and who should be held responsible for the unfortunate incident. Governor Nyesom Wike has overtime accused security operatives of being responsible for the killings and other forms of violence witnessed during the lection while secury operatives are singing a different tune. According to the Chairman, House Committee on Defence, Hon. Rimande Shawule Kwewum, the joint committee was mandated to investigate alleged killings by operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS) during the elections. Kwewum disclosed that the member representing Obio/Akpor Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Kingsley Chinda, had in a motion on the floor of the House of Representatives, informed the lawmakers about the killing of Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, a lecturer with the Kenule Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, during the elections. Gberegbe, who was returning agent to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the March 9, 2019 governorship election, died on March 16, 2019 at a private hospital in Port Harcourt, from gunshot injuries he sustained during an alleged attack on him on March 10, 2019. Addressing members of the joint committee when the paid him a courtesy visit at Government House, Port Harcourt, Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, took the Nigerian Army and F-SARS to the cleaners over their alleged roles in the 2019 general elections in the state. Wike, who described the actions of Nigerian Army as the worst in the nation’s democratic history, said the Nigerian Army staged a coup against Rivers State during the elections. The governor stated that the Nigerian Army acted illegally because the solders were working to impose a pre-determined leadership on the people of the state. He said: “It is really unfortunate. All of us know that there was a coup in this state, organised by the Nigerian Army. In the history of this country, it has never happened where during ordinary election, Army will begin to kill people for no just cause. “Because they believe a particular person or a particular party must win, it doesn’t matter how many people die. It was shown on National Television. We watched how the Army invaded the whole Electoral Commission.” Wike regretted that the Federal Government has never worked to assist Rivers State government in it’s fight against insecurity. According to the governor; “This is the only state the Federal Government has never assisted to fight insecurity. Instead of us to team up and fight insecurity, you politicize it. “Even if you make recommendations, nothing will happen. I don’t know whether we are in a military regime or civil administration.” He noted that aside the  Nigerian Army, the F-SARS has been a major anti-democratic force in the state, since the 2016 rerun elections. Wike stated that operatives of the F-SARS murdered a doctorate degree holder and Chartered Accountant in cold blood simply because they wanted to subvert the will of the people. The governor wondered why the General Officer Commanding 6 Division of the Nigerian Army is still unpunished, despite the negative roles he allegedly played during the elections. He said: “The GOC here is a politician. Nothing has happened  to him because he was sent. If it was when the country was a country, you cannot be keeping that GOC. He is sabotaging the security network.” Wike suggested that urgent measures  be taken to rejig the security architecture of the country, in view of the nationwide security challenges. The governor said rather than address the security challenges facing the country, security agencies move against critics of security failures. To the Nigerian Army, it was not involved in any wrongdoing in the cause of carrying out it’s responsibility during the just-concluded general elections in the state. Brigadier-General Felix Omoigue, appeared on behalf of the Nigerian Army at the first day of the sitting of the House of Representatives’ Joint Committee Army, Police, Human Rights and Justice, at the main auditorium of the Rivers State House of Assembly complex, Port Harcourt. Omoigue stated that the soldiers acted only on professional grounds, adding that “the army has never been partisan in dealing with election matters.” He also blamed politicians in Rivers for “creating unnecessary tensions” in the build up to the election, adding that the army played a huge role in calming tension in the state. On its part, the Nigerian Police denied  denied involvement in the murder of a lecturer at the Kenule Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, insisting that the deceased was poisoned by suspected cultists. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ASP) Akin Fakorede, Commander of F-SARS in the state, represented the Rivers State Police Command, on the second day of the committee’s sitting. Fakorede insisted that Gberegbe was shot at Elimgbu community in Obio/ Akpor local government area of the state, during a gun battle between two factions of a dreaded cult group. He said: “Dr. Ferry Gberegbe was killed by his friends and associates and not by his foes and most certainly not be SARS or any Police unit or operative. He was shot at Elimgbu by Pipeline, not far from his residence along Court Road and not Bori, in Khana local government area as alleged. “The bullet that landed Ferry Gberegbe in the hospital was not fired from the barrel of a police rifle but from the mouth of a locally-fabricated pistol. Indeed, Ferry Gberegbe did not die from gunshot injury but from Cardiculary Arrest, that is heart attack, accentuated by food poisoning. “Ferry Gberegbe was a well and healthy man on the day he died. He died on March 16, 2019 at exactly 10:05 hours with a bowl of poisoned food in his hands. “He shouted in the middle of the meal and gave up the ghost and that ended a long drama, which he had joined to write the script, intended by all the conspirators to cover up a huge fraud in which thieves without honour decided to armtwist each other in order to enjoy a booty meant for several party faithful. “Dr. Ferry Gberegbe is a leading member of Dewell cult gang and during the gubernatorial election, his role was to coordinate and supervise the various cult groups in their assigned roles. “The money for all the cult groups running into several millions was handed over to him for disbursement to relevant actors. It was his attempt to outsmart members of his group that led to his death.” The F-SARS Commander called on the House of Representatives Joint Committee to institute an autopsy so as to ascertain the actual cause of Gberegbe’s death, as well as a forensic examination of the bullet extracted from the deceased body to know if it was actually fired from a Police rifle. Fakorede said: “It is the recommendation of the Rivers State Police Command that the panel should consider the following; an autopsy by an independent medical team to determine the cause of Dr. Ferry Gberegbe’s death. “To send for forensic examination, the bullet extracted from the body of Dr. Gberegbe to determine whether the bullet was fired from a police rifle or otherwise. “The panel should please request for the call data of GSM number 08035479552, belonging to Dr. Ferry Gberegbe. Calls and text messages sent and received between March 10 and 15, 2019 should be investigated. “The panel should visit Bori in Khana local government area, where Ferry Gberegbe was allegedly shot and should also visit Saint Patrick’s Hospital at Number 3 Eastern Bye-Pass, off Ogbunabali, Port Harcourt where he eventually died and determine whether it is possible for any human being with gunshot wound, to travel 60 kilometers with the heavy Port Harcourt traffic and will not bleed to death. “The panel should ask why was Ferry Gberegbe not rushed to Bori General Hospital or several hospitals and trauma centres in Gokana, Tai, Eleme, Obio/Akpor, of indeed he was shot at Bori. “The proprietor of Saint Patrick’s Hospital should be invited to explain why he refused to provide the Police with Ferry Gberegbe’s medical report.” Speaking at the inaugural sitting of the joint committee, the Chairman, House of Representatives’ Committee on Army, Kwewum said the joint committee was in the state  on a fact finding mission. He stated that the committees will sit down and allow all the stakeholders to state their positions for the committee  to arrive at the truth and make relevant recommendations. The lawmaker further stated that there is a correlation between insecurity and under-development, adding that countries that suffer insecurity hardly make progress.