The federal government has said the nation’s rising debt obligation was designed to reflate the economy by way of increasing consumption through implementation of the government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). The ERGP was launched in 2017 by President Muhammadu Buhari to restore the nation’s economic status at the throes of rising inflation rate and recession. True to plan, the Nigerian economy came out of recession at the tail end of 2017. “The debt increase from N12.2trn to N23.0trn is by design,” says Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed yesterday during a media briefing in Abuja. “We have designed the ERGP to reflate the economy to take us out of recession. When we came on board and we made an assessment it was clear that our country was going into recession. When we did a research on the best way revert the recession was to reflate the economy and that means putting resources in the economy so that consumption will increase. “We designed the ERGP to borrow in the first year and second and third years and in the fourth year the borrowing was supposed to start reducing. That is exactly what we have done.’’ The Finance Minister said the federal government ensured that it borrowed to finance capital projects. Mrs. Ahmed justified government position by stating that some countries that went into recession at the same time with Nigeria are still not out of recession, “but because of the method we adopted.” She however acknowledged the consequence that is manifesting itself in the increase in debt, adding that the ministry of finance and all its agencies are working to make sure that they increase revenues. “At 19.09 debt to GDP, ratio we still are the lowest comparative countries. Brazil, South Africa etc are all having an average of 56% debt to GDP ratio. If you look at our budget the debt service to GDP ratio is 30% because revenues underperform it goes as high as 50 to 55%  and in some months up to 60%. So if our revenues perform optimally we are in a good place as far as revenues are concerned,” she stated. The Minister also disclosed that the federal government has released seven months overhead for 2018, two months for 2019, and N2.079 trillion for capital expenditure as at 14th May, 2019. According to her, the government’s Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA) has saved the Federation N603.78 billion from 2016 when it was introduced to date. Among this figure, is the savings of N8.30 billion during Q1 2019. Mrs. Ahmed says the total sum of N649.434 billion was verified by the Ministry as the outstanding balance to be refunded to the State Governments from the final phase of Paris Club debt refunds, noting that the CBN has made the payment of N691.560 billion as at March 2019. Earlier, the director-general of Debt Management Office (DMO), DMO, Ms Patience Oniha says the N20 billion auction for 30 years bond that was offered in April received N80 billion oversubscription. She said “This month we are issuing another lot so that they can be enough in the market for trading and for all the other investors who wanted. So it’s actually a very strategic move on behalf of the government, as far as it comes to.’’ On his part, Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hammed Ali (rtd) said Customs has not given any license for importation of rice to anybody since assumption of office. “Any rice you see on the street that is not produced in Nigeria, is smugglers,” Mr. Ali said. He appealed to Nigerians to patronise indigenous rice to ensure that rice importers and smugglers are out of business.