…Says history will vindicate him  Out-going Imo state governor Rochas Okorocha Wednesday admitted that he been the most misunderstood and most controversial governor the state has ever produced in the annals of its history because of his style of governance.  He said that his passion and vision to reposition the state for greatness makes him to bend rules and regulations in governance, instead as against breaking such rules, adding that he had no regret for his actions as history would vindicate him.  The governor who stated this at the official commission of the new justice Chukwudifu Akunne Oputa High court complex new Owerri argued that if he had adhered to the usual style of governance, he would not have succeeded.  “I came in through the window of the masses and not through the doors of the elite and I am crazy in my vision and passion for a greater Imo state and nothing has affected my oblongata”.  For resisting and restraining some indigenes of the state to continue business as usual in government, the governor said that he had been derided, scorned and maligned as Okoro Hausa and Aboki.  Enumerating his achievements in the past 8 years, he said “let my works speak for me after leaving office and I am not in the business of wasting, the tax payers money to commission projects because I believe that such fund should be channeled to other productive ventures”, boasting that he had set a standard which any incoming governor would not beat. “My crazy system of governance is working and no governor coming after me will ever think of building hospitals in Imo for the next 50 years or to build more varsities”.  He extolled the late Justice Chukwudifu Oputa as one of the nation’s greatest patriots who distinguished themselves in character and assured that their would be smooth transition and peace in the state even as he promised to clear all arrears owed to judges in the state before leaving office.  In his address, the chief Judge of the state, Justice Paschal Nnadi stressed that the commissioning of the court complex would go a long way to reduce the current suffocating situation of insufficient court facilities which he said for many years gave rise to the uncomfortable situation where 2 or more judges share one court hall.  “The embarrassment which lack of adequate court halls would have caused us in Imo state was recently averted by the assignment of six of our judges to election tribunal duty outside Imo state which freed their court hall for use by the 5 (five) election petition Tribunals empanelled for Imo state and now on ground and sitting in Imo state.  “One can therefore, imagine the sigh of relief and re-invigoration that the completion and commissioning of this Court Complex has given to the Judiciary of Imo state”.  He gave an assurance that the state judiciary under his watch would continued to discharge its constitutional duties of ensuring that Justice is administered in the state without fear or favour, affection or ill will stressing that the court complex commissioned would not only be the court of law but a court where justice would rein supreme in the state.  Acting Chief Justice of the federation justice Tanko Muhammad who commissioned the project through Hon. Justice Amina Augie commended governor Okorocha for providing the structure which he said would go along way in the dispensation of justice