The executive secretary and chief executive of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Ms. Yewande Sadiku, has said the commission was in talks with other government agencies towards a more investor friendly exchange rate. Speaking at the Renaissance Capital 10th Annual Pan Africa 1:1 Investor Conference in Lagos yesterday, Sadiku said in spite of the stability in the exchange rate market, foreign investors still express concerns. She stated that the NIPC was interested in rates that “will help us see even more investments in Nigeria in line with what government has in line. And we are doing some work to see it move closer to what government documented intention is. “The same manner we are doing this is the way we advocated for the introduction of the change in foreign exchange regime in 2017, where a lot of that work was done behind the scenes with collaboration with other government agencies.” Sadiku while highlighting concerns of foreign investors in the country said they “talk about policy stability they want to know that when government puts a policy position, that that policy remains. “Investors still talk about power even though many believe they can mitigate the power issue because if you know there is a power challenge you can simply make arrangement for self-generation of electricity and you price it into what you are doing. “Investors talk about security when it concerns going beyond certain part of Nigeria, so many investors draw a line and there are certain part of Nigeria that they are not as present as they should be in. “Investors still sadly talk about foreign exchange. Not that they cannot access the currency but there is some concern about how long the stability that we see in the foreign exchange will last and if the stability is sustainable. “There are some concerns in their minds in terms of estimating what their returns are. The bulk of the investors that we deal with are not short term investors. They take a really long term view and what we tell them is that there might be short flips, excitements but in the context of the long term fundamentals Nigeria’s fundamentals remain strong. “We will be the third most populous country by 2050 and I ask them what kind of relationship you want to have with the third most populous country in the world. Nigeria has the ninth largest reserves of arable land in the world and based on the size of arable land that we have we should be feeding the world. “Nigeria also has a youthful population with entrepreneurial energy. These are not things that necessarily convert in a short term. They are things that in the long term you cannot close your eyes to.” While giving the opening remarks, chief executive of Renaissance Capital Nigeria, Temitope Popoola, identified the impending swearing-in ceremony of elected leaders in Nigeria as an opportunity for a new start. “This is the right time to begin to focus on policies that will deliver inclusive growth in the next four years. We believe that diversification from oil dependency is inevitable given how little oil Nigeria exports per capita. “To fully unlock Nigeria’s economic potential, some structural constraints must also be removed: adult literacy needs to improve to 70-80 per cent, electricity consumption needs to treble and investment needs to double from 13 per cent of GDP in 2017 to at least 25 per cent.” Also the chairman of the board, Renaissance Capital Christophe Charlier, said “the key takeaway from this conference is that investors focus too strongly on the risks, often missing the chance to turn some of the country’s key challenges into viable prospects. Opportunities abound, and Renaissance Capital remains committed to Nigeria and West Africa, which is evidenced by the Firm’s growing share of market and deal pipeline.”