United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc over the weekend, celebrated 70 years of operations in an event that was as exciting as it was nostalgic. Clients, friends and well-wishers from all works of life joined the UBA Group led by the chairman, Mr Tony Elumelu, to commemorate 70 years of legacy with the organisation which has over the decades, emerged as one of Africa’s topmost financial giants. The platinum anniversary of UBA was combined with the bank’s annual CEO awards ceremony as members of staff from all 23 countries of operations who had excelled over the past year were rewarded in the midst of thousands of guests. In attendance at the epic night of activities, were royal fathers, captains of industry, political leaders, clients and friends of the bank.  Some of the guests present were the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye, Enitan Ogunwusi; the Emir of Kano represented by the Sarkin Shanun of Kano, Alhaji Shehu Mohammed; Former and Present Governors of Cross Rivers State, Donald Duke and Prof Ben Ayade; Governors-elect of Lagos, Ogun and Kwara States, Babajide Sanwo-olu,  Dapo Abiodun and AbdulRahman AbdulRazak. Also present were Pastor Tunde Bakare; Chief Emeka Anyaoku; Otunba Gbenga Daniels; Chief Segun Osoba; Otunba Niyi Adebayo; Dr Jim Ovia; Oba    Otudeko; Nnamdi  Okonkwo; Rasheed Olaoluwa, amongst many others. Former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babaginda who could not attend the event sent in letters of congratulations to commend the bank on its landmark achievements. The Chairman, UBA Plc, Mr. Tony Elumelu, accompanied by his wife Dr. Awele, remarked that UBA remains a leading financial institution on the continent and hitting the 70th year mark was a laudable achievement. He said, “It is a time to celebrate UBA’s rich heritage and legacy over 70 years and to tell everyone who has contributed to what UBA is today, that we appreciate all they have been doing and how they have ensured that the investment put into the bank over the past decades have paid off.” Tony Elumelu who invited all past chairmen, board members and management as well as senior staff both past and present on stage said  “These are cherished moments for us, and we’d like to thank all of you who have made it possible for us to be where we are today. one, our customers, stakeholders and those who have passed through UBA and worked hard to lay a solid foundation for creating a foremost institution. It is an evening worth celebrating for us all. 70 years is a huge number, a milestone achievement” he enthused. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka,  spoke about the banks’ achievements over the past 70 years and some of its objectives for the coming years,  commending staff  for their hard work and resilience that have contributed to UBA retaining its position as Africa’s top bank of choice.