The city fell. Hundreds of troops march along its wide streets, their faces smudged with gunpowder. The capital of a vastkingdom, once the richest and mightiest center of civilization for thousands of miles around, has now turned into smoking ruins after days of battle. The bodies of city defenders and local residents lie around, and the invaders step over them without even noticing. Soon the king will die in exile, and the majesticworks of local artisans will be looted and burnt down, just like the entire city. This is not a scene from one of the battles of the Middle Ages, when such violence and barbarism were commonplace among the European nations.This is something that happened in Africa on the territory of present-day Nigeria just at the end of the 19th century. In 1897, during what was called a Punitive expedition, a 1,200-strong British colonial army under the command of Rear-Admiral Henry Rawson captured, looted and burnt to the ground the city of Benin, thus bringing to an end the centuries-old West African Kingdom of Benin, famous for its advanced architecture and refined artifacts of bronze, iron and ivory.Destruction of Benin was just an episode of decades-long British violence in Nigeria, when public torture and collective punishment were routinely used by the colonial governors. The atrocities of British colonialists were openly driven by racism. ‘The only way to correct black people was to flog them,’ a British chief justice said at the beginning of the 20th century. Once again, it was said at the beginning of the 20th century, almost a hundred years after slavery was outlawed and just at the threshold of the rise of Nazism in Hitler’s Germany. The difference is, while Nazi warmongers were brought to justice by the Nuremberg Tribunal, Great Britain’s colonial rulers were hardly ever held accountable for their numerous xenophobic brutalities in Africaand particularly Nigeria.On top of that, miscellaneous hard evidence of the colonial violence was intentionally destroyed or covered up, while numerous records remain classified by London even today. The extent of the hypocrisy is uncanny. By the way, the first concentration camps were established by the British during their wars against the Boers in South Africa. Herr Hitler just copied the British example, destroying millions of people in his concentration camps. It is disgraceful how virtually everyone who suffered from the British colonialists let them get away with their crimes with almost perfect impunity. It has been instilled in our minds that by granting independence to its African colonies the British Empire somehow earned atonement for the decades of violence, exploitation and humiliation of our ancestors, the rightful owners of these lands. It is necessary to understand that independence was not a grace on the part of the British, but something they had been obliged to provide many years before that actually happened. The invaders occupiedvast African territories and many other nations globally harassing its indigenous peoples and forcefully imposing its power. Apart from the enormous moral damage, the British fleeced the colonies of billions-of-dollars’ worth of resources and built the might of its empire on the sufferings of millions of Africans, Indians and others. With such a truly horrible record of state-sponsored abuse, the colonialists never paid for it. On top of that, it would be short-sighted to think that with the abolition of its direct rule London abandoned its aspiration to control its former African colonies. The British tactics may have changed, but not the essence, as blatant violence gave way to more intricate ways of imposing its influence, particularly with the use of financial and economic instruments. The financial aid, which comes from London to the former colonies today, certainly comes with strings attached. Instead of providing real help, such as building infrastructure, creating jobs, expanding educational opportunities, what Great Britain is actually doing is treating us bones off the table thus smoke screening its actual reluctance to make any real difference. In reality, justice calls for former colonial rulers’ full accountability for the unprecedented damage they inflicted upon the occupied nations. The colonies were robbed of its extraordinary treasures to line the coffers of the British crown, and London keeps a straight face today like their grandfathers just two generations ago did not kill and burn our grandfathers. It would be completely fair to say that Great Britain owes its former colonies, India, Australia, Africa, Nigeria, you and me. And this debt is tremendously huge. Now, when African nations are in dire need of money to re-build their countries and empower their peoples, we have to claim back what is rightfully ours. We have to insist on multibillion reparations from the British, because its colonialism was nothing less than wartime-like occupation of our lands by foreign intruders. Thousands of people were separated with their families and enslaved by the colonizers to be forced into hard unpaid labor for the good of another civilization. Has anyone ever paid for their lives and excruciating toil?Have these people ever found justice? We are fully entitled to financial compensation for the decades of unmotivated abuse of our people and our homeland. How come this question is not one of the core points of the agenda of the countries around the world, which were robbed of many years of its own development by the British?Why did we let them get away with it so easily? When do we get back what belongs to us? Benin City, the capital of Edo state, is now a major city of modern Nigeria.The colonial decades seem to have passed never to return, and the British-associated violence looks like a nightmare, which you caneasily shake offin the morning and go on with your day. But I cannot help seeing torn down walls of a magnificent African capital and the bleeding bodies of innocent people, my compatriots. I see a crime with no retribution for the perpetrators. This kind of things you can hardly ever forget.  – Adam is a Doctoral student and researcher at the Mass Communication Department of University of Lagos, Akoka-Nigeria