The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has opened 96 new metrological centres since the resumption of the DG/CEO of the agency, Prof Sani Abubakar Mashi, has said. The was revealed by the agency in a statement signed by Eleazar Obende for the general manager, Public Relation, yesterday. While quoting the director – general, Obende noted that “NiMet has increased the density of the meteorological observation stations from 54 to over 150. This will broaden the services of the agency to cover greater areas of the country, with seasoned and experienced officers deployed to man the new stations.According to the statement said Mashi explained further that NiMet, through its Department of Applied Meteorological Services, was working towards providing sector – specific services such as the agro-meteorology and hydro- meteorology that would meet the critical needs of Nigeria. “This development will not only ensure improved services to the teeming population of the nation, but will support government’s policy on food security and diversification of the economy through its various agricultural programmes and interventions. It will also provide early warning advisories and mitigation,” it stated. The statement also revealed that NiMet has “promoted some 400 of its staff to various positions between 2018 and April 2019 under the watch of the Mashi. “The most recent of these promotions, which took place in April, 2019, affected 35 staff to different substantive managerial posts in the organisation. Amongst the officers promoted are assistant general managers, deputy general managers and general managers. The DG disclosed that the exercise was in line with his avowed commitment to staff welfare, training and capacity building programmes which have been decentralised for more effective and timely implementation. He added that, “It is part of the process alignment for the agency’s strategic programme to transform NiMet into a world class meteorological agency that should lead on the African continent in terms of the provision of meteorological services.”