The House of Representatives Member-elect of Apa/Agatu Federal Constituency in the February 23, 2019 National Assembly election on the platform of the Labour Party (LP), Hon Samuel Godday, has slammed Mr Morgan Adikwu, a social media influencer with 500 million naira libel suit over defamation of character. The suit was filed at the High Court of Justice Makurdi Benue State is in response to a publication on Facebook by Morgan Adikwu.  In the said publication, Mr Morgan Adikwu was said to have claimed that Hon Samuel Godday forged his University of Abuja degree certificate and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) exclusion certificate he presented to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In the same publication, Morgan also published allegedly false/forged disclaimers from the University of Abuja and the NYSC respectively stating that they did not issue the certificates to Hon. Godday Samuel Part of the relief being sort by Hon Godday is an order of perpetual injunction restraining the Defendant (Mr Morgan Adikwu), privies, assigns, surrogates or agents howsoever called from further defaming the Plaintiff’s character and reputation.  Hon Godday is also seeking a relief of the court that the Defendant’s allegations and publication of same on Facebook on 29 April, 2019, is false, mischievous, unsubstantiated, defamatory and libelous. And Order directing the Defendant to publish simultaneous retractions on prime time beats of the Nigerian Television Authority, Channels Television, African Independent Television, Radio Nigeria, Radio Benue, Harvest FM, five national newspapers and social media. According to Hon Samuel Godday, the publication was a calculated attempt at maligning his hard earned image, hence the suit to clear his name of the allegation and also for an order of the court to compel Mr Morgan Adikwu to pay him the sum 500 million naira in damages for defaming his character. The case was instituted on behalf of Hon Godday by the law chamber of Jonathan Akeme was dated 6 April, 2019. According to Hon Godday, Morgan Adikwu and his accomplices in their desperation have gone to the extent of hatching the nefarious idea of crafting fake disclaimers from the University of Abuja and the to prove their sinister allegationa against him. He described the allegations as false, frivolous, hollow and childish, and urged the general public to disregard the false allegations against him by Morgan Adikwu and accomplices as they are being sponsored by mischief makers and failed, desperate and disgraced politicians. House of Representatives Member-elect of Apa/Agatu Federal Constituency in the February 23, 2019 National Assembly election on the platform of the Labour Party (LP), Hon Samuel Godday, has slammed Mr Morgan Adikwu, a social media influencer with 500 million naira libel suit over defamation of character. The suit was filed at the High Court of Justice Makurdi Benue State is in response to a publication on Facebook by Morgan Adikwu. In the said publication, Mr Morgan Adikwu was said to have claimed that Hon Samuel Godday forged his University of Abuja degree certificate and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) exclusion certificate he presented to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In the same publication, Morgan also published allegedly false/forged disclaimers from the University of Abuja and the NYSC respectively stating that they did not issue the certificates to Hon. Godday Samuel Part of the relief being sort by Hon Godday is an order of perpetual injunction restraining the Defendant (Mr Morgan Adikwu), privies, assigns, surrogates or agents howsoever called from further defaming the Plaintiff’s character and reputation. Hon Godday is also seeking a relief of the court that the Defendant’s allegations and publication of same on Facebook on 29 April, 2019, is false, mischievous, unsubstantiated, defamatory and libelous. And Order directing the Defendant to publish simultaneous retractions on prime time beats of the Nigerian Television Authority, Channels Television, African Independent Television, Radio Nigeria, Radio Benue, Harvest FM, five national newspapers and social media. According to Hon Samuel Godday, the publication was a calculated attempt at maligning his hard earned image, hence the suit to clear his name of the allegation and also for an order of the court to compel Mr Morgan Adikwu to pay him the sum 500 million naira in damages for defaming his character. The case was instituted on behalf of Hon Godday by the law chamber of Jonathan Akeme was dated 6 April, 2019. According to Hon Godday, Morgan Adikwu and his accomplices in their desperation have gone to the extent of hatching the nefarious idea of crafting fake disclaimers from the University of Abuja and the to prove their sinister allegationa against him. He described the allegations as false, frivolous, hollow and childish, and urged the general public to disregard the false allegations against him by Morgan Adikwu and accomplices as they are being sponsored by mischief makers and failed, desperate and disgraced politicians.