As the holy month of Ramadan is begins in about a weeks time, a team of 10 Nigerian Christians and Muslim clerics headed by pastor Yohanna Buru of Christ Intercesory Fellowship Sabon Tasha has launched a Campaign in some local market across the 23 local markets of Kaduna state on the need to cut down their prices. Pastor Baru adviced the makerters against any attempt to increase prices of food commodities during the holy month of Ramadan. According to the Christians Cleric the reason behind the advocacy visit is to meet, dialogue and talk with various market unions, Fruits seller, and other stakeholders in other to appeal to them to either cut-down their prices or not to increase penny from all the goods and services they sell. He said, this is to enable Muslims buy food stuff and fruits at affordable prices throughout the 30 days for breaking their fast, ”God will surely be angry with any Marketer or seller that Double the prices of his Good just because he want to take advantage of the holy season, such marketer will not enter paradise” “stop taking advantage in the holy month through inflating prizes of Good and service for your personal interest, God is surely angry with any marketer that triple prizes of any commodity in the holy month,” He equally told marketers to remember Widows, Physically challenged person , orphans, and internally displaced person (IDPs) with unemployed person in every things they are doing. Adding that ,this is the 5th time he is taking this type of Campaign in Kaduna with his team. Pastor buru added that “it was observed that in each and every year, marketers from Northern Nigeria take the advantage of the holy month while extorting from the public, and this is not really Good because God is angry with such marketers,and as such there wont be any God Blessings from the money he/she makes from such dirty gains as a result of tripling food price.” “We must team as a Christians and Muslims to kick against all forms of extortion from the marketers that will affect any muslim during the sacred month,because we are from one God and Adams and eve were our original parents,and we both have our holy scripture Bible and Qur’an and also believed in paradise and hell.” Among the markets that were visited include Kaduna central market “checheniya,” Barnawa market, Mando market, Tudun wada, Badarawa and Unguwan Dosa market,while other clerics are to visit some market in southern part of kaduna state. He equally called on wealthy individual to remember to help the needy at a season like this. While Responding, The kaduna state secretary “ association of Tomato sellers” ,Mallam Dalhatu Aliyu thanked the team of the Christian clerics and muslims that visited the market and urged marketers not to increase a Kobo for the sake of Ramadan. Aliyu begged marketer to be contented with the little money they make, as God will bless it. Barnawa market association also expressed satisfaction, as Comrade Gambo Abdullahi one of the market union said, this is the fourth time, pastor yohanna is coming to the market to appealed to us to cut-down-our prices Gambo said only God will bless the Pastor for such a great initiative.