Royal fans have gone into meltdown after Harry and Meghan introduced Baby Sussex to the world for the first time, declaring that he looks ‘just like Momma’. Although Harry and Meghan declined to say who they think he takes after, royal fans were sure the new baby resembles his mother. ‘Everyone says the baby has changed so much over the two weeks. We are basically monitoring how the changing process over this next month. But his looks are changing every single day, so who knows,’ Harry said. Declaring the newborn ‘precious’, Twitter users were overjoyed at seeing the new arrival after a long wait, when Meghan went over her due date. Unlike the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Harry and Meghan decided to eschew the royal tradition of posing for photos with the baby in the hours after the birth in favour of keeping the moment private for family. However the couple did make plans to introduce their son today and appeared in front of a handful of members of the press. Harry and Meghan have been enjoying the experience of being new parents at their Frogmore Cottage home near the Queen’s Windsor Castle residence. Family members spoke about the joy of the new arrival with the Duke of Cambridge saying on Tuesday he was ‘obviously thrilled, absolutely thrilled, and obviously looking forward to seeing them in the next few days when things have quietened down’.He added: ‘I’m very pleased and glad to welcome my own brother into the sleep deprivation society that is parenting.’ Harry was at his wife’s side during the birth on Monday and he later confessed he had only had a few hours’ sleep, suggesting Meghan had spent much of the night in labour.Kate revealed they had no clues about the baby’s name but were eager to see the Sussexes and their new arrival. She said: ‘As William said, we’re looking forward to meeting him and finding out what his name’s going to be so it’s really exciting for both of them and we wish them all the best.’These next few weeks are always a bit daunting the first time round so we wish them all the best.’ Baby Sussex arrived at 5.26am on Monday, weighing 7lb 3oz. The Prince of Wales has also spoken publicly for the first time about the birth, saying he was ‘delighted’ at arrival of his latest grandchild. During an official visit to Germany with the Duchess of Cornwall, Charles said on Tuesday: ‘We couldn’t be more delighted at the news and we’re looking forward to meeting the baby when we return.’ Harry’s grandmother the Queen accepted the congratulations of a Windsor Castle guest who asked: ‘Life is good for Your Majesty?’ The Queen, who was joined by the Duke of Edinburgh, was hosting a lunch on Tuesday for members of the Order of Merit and smiling said in reply ‘yes, thank you’.