FlexiSAF Foundation and WASTE Africa have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) agreement to tackle the alarming and rising figure of out of school children as well as the rising rates of plastic waste threatening the future of Nigeria. This partnership is in line with Sustainable Development Goals, SDG4, SDG13, SDG15 and SDG17, with the pledge to reach the targets ahead of 2030. Speaking during the MoU signing ceremony in Abuja, WASTE Africa CEO, Funto Boroffice stated that she was excited with the partnership. “Our commitment to the environment was the catalyst that led to the launch of the BottlesForBooks initiative. We recognise the need to partner with organisations that are dedicated to reducing the number of out of school children. It is my pleasure to partner with FlexiSAF Foundation and I believe it is a step in the right direction.” She also said that the goal of WASTE Africa is to reach marginalised communities and ensuring waste cleanup while providing access to quality education for out of school children in those communities. The chair of FlexiSAF Foundation, Ahmad Salihijo also expressed his commitment to the initiative. “We have undertaken to curb the menace of out of school children in Nigeria, and have taken bold steps in achieving this goal. To buttress that, we are partnering with WASTE Africa on the BottlesForBooks initiative to ensure that no child is left behind. We will provide WASTE Africa with all necessary support in identifying out of school children and tracking educational progress of all children enrolled through this partnership.” Salihijo said the BottlesForBooks initiative seeks to provide solution to out of school children and rising waste by converting recyclable waste into funds geared towards tuition, books and uniforms for out of school children that do not have the resources to afford schooling. According to National Geographic, 6.3 billion metric tons of plastic wastes have been generated in the world, polluting our habitat and our oceans. Of that, only nine per cent has been recycled. The vast majority, 79 per cent, are accumulating in landfills or sloughing off in the natural environment as litter. LEADERSHIP reports that according to UNESCO statistics, about 262 million children and youth are out of school worldwide, with Nigeria accounting for a whopping 10 million. The Federal Ministry of Education has also confirmed the figure for Nigeria.