The  Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has set an ambitious plan of growing the country’s non-oil exports from $1.204billion in 2016, to $8billion (N2.8trn) in 2019 and eventually $25billion by 2025 through the Zero to Oil Plan, its flagship programme aimed at mobilising public and private resources towards replacing oil as the main  source of foreign exchange. Executive director/CEO of Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Mr. Olusegun Awolowo, made this known at the Batch 5 Zero to Export Graduation Ceremony yesterday in Abuja. Awolowo said the Council would not relent in creating opportunities for Nigerians to imbibe the culture of exportation through capacity building training programmes as the Council celebrates the passing out of 62 trainees of its Zero to Export Capacity Building Programme. He emphasised that the Zero to Export Programme had been part of the Council’s efforts to reposition the non-oil sector, enforcing the narrative of the Council through job creation and inclusive growth – thereby making it a major contributor to the gross domestic product (GDP) of Nigeria. Represented by Mr. William Ezeagu, Director Product Development,NEPC, Awolowo described the Zero to Export programme as an effective tool of introducing companies into the export business, because the Council  recognised the fact that many companies desired to go into the export business but lacked the capacity and skill to embark on the business successfully. He announced the provision of N500, 000 to the co-operative society formed by participants of the graduating batch. This, he said, was expected to serve as a seed capital to enhance smooth take-off of the co-operative society in engaging in export business. He advised the graduates to take the opportunity of having been trained seriously to strive to sustain the programme by involving in actual export business. This way the huge investments in material and resources deplored by the Council would be justified. He also added, that Council was not unaware of the funding challenges  faced by MSMEs in going into export business, adding that the Council has not relented in proffering solutions to tackle these challenges. “Apart from our collaborative effort with commercial banks,we are also working very closely with development banks especially the NEXIM Bank to provide succor to MSMEs in export financing.You are expected to key into it and benefit from these facilities to enhance your export financing needs.Only recently, the Central Bank of Nigeria  under its export e/pension financing , approved loan facilities for some products value chains such as cocoa, cashew, shea, oil palm, textiles and garments, ” he said. According to him, with the implementation of the New Basket of Incentives (NBI) which has been recently revived  especially the Export Development Fund (EDF) and the Export Expansion Grant scheme, the issue of export finance was being addressed holistically. “It is expected that most of you will benefit  from the incentive schemes when you  commence your export,” he said. The Zero to Export initiative is one of the flagship programmes of the Council that focuses on creating new generation of Nigerian exporters through practical and theoretical training of business executives, bankers, civil servants, unemployed graduates and even retired citizens with interest in export business. The programme is anchored on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement led by the consultant,Mr Kola Awe of EPT Logistics International Limited. So far the programme has trained and graduated over 200 trainees from the Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja centres. Most of the trainees have formed registered cooperatives, and are already exporting.