CHIBUZO UKAIBE and SAM EGWU write on the uphill task before the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi State as it struggles to put it’s house in order ahead of November 2 governorship poll  The meeting at the national secretariat in Abuja underscored the dilemma Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) faces  in Kogi State. Major stakeholders of the party from the state were present at the meeting which held on April 17, this year. A quick roll call showed that former Kogi governors, Capt. Idris Wada, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris; former deputy governor, Arc. Yomi Awoniyi; Senator Tunde Ogbeha, Chief Patrick Adagba; federal legislators from Kogi State; state PDP chairman, Engr Sam Uhotu as well as other critical stakeholders drawn from all the local government areas of the state were at the meeting. With the governorship election in the state fixed for November 2, 2019, the meeting was not just expedient but critical in light of the seeming frail disposition of the party in the state. The meeting started off with an opening statement by the national chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, which was read by the national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, who is the leader of the party in the state by virtue of his being the highest political office holder. Speaking at the opening of the meeting, Ologbondiyan, said that PDP’s winning streaks in the just concluded governorship elections in Bauchi, Imo, Rivers, Adamawa, Bauchi, Osun among other states will be reenacted in the forthcoming Kogi governorship election. He added that the party has the support of the people of Kogi state, who are now looking up to it to rescue the state from the of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that the PDP cannot afford to fail them. He said, “The people of Kogi State are therefore looking up to the PDP for a rescue and we cannot afford to fail them. We must therefore not allow anything to demoralize us as the winning streaks, which our party displayed in Imo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Osun among others, will be repeated in Kogi state by the grace of Almighty God. “In this race, we must also bear in mind that we have the support of the people. Kogi state has always been home to the PDP not withstanding the temporary setback of the APC. We must therefore prepare ourselves, stand with the people and salvage our dear state from the pangs of misrule. Our people yearn to move forward and we must give them that leverage which they earnestly seek”, he said.  Ologbondiyan reiterated the already expressed commitment of the NWC to ensure free, fair, transparent, rancor free and credible processes for all activities toward the governorship election so as to throw up a candidate that is collectively acceptable to the people of Kogi State. Clearly, there is a need for urgent constructive actions within the party ahead of the governorship poll. But that sense of urgency will have to contend with the enormity of challenges the party faces at the moment. The PDP lost control of Kogi State to the main oposition, All Progressive Congress (APC) in 2016, after ruling since 2003. While some analysts attributed that loss as leading to the meltdown within the party, others believe that that defeat was inevitable, if not overdue. Although a number of factors led to the party’s defeat at the polls, including, a stretch of underwhelming performance, the 2015 APC tsunami and the acceptability of APC candidate then, late Abubakar Audu, the PDP has been riddled by internal crisis. As the intense face-off between former governor Ibrahim Idris and other leaders of the party in the state especially, former national chairman of PDP, Col Ahmadu Ali, festered, it was gathered that relationship between Idris and his successor, Capt Wada, also had a downward spiral in the lead up to the 2016 election. And so while it was not surprising for many pundits that PDP lost the 2016 governorship election, it was also not unexpected that the political gladiators would recline into their respective domain in attempts to consolidate their hold. However, the political dexterity of the incumbent governor, Yahaya Bello, since he assumed office has not just sparked fear in the PDP camp but a present threat to their political relevance in the state.  Last Wednesday’s meeting was instructive not just because it held at the party’s national headquarters but because it was designed to signpost the trajectory of the party ahead of the  November 2 election in the state. The gathering was also to take stock of the party’s performance in the recent general election in the state even though its governorship election was not due until November. After the last election, PDP won only in senatorial districts Kogi West. At the House of Representatives, PDP won one seat as well. But the APC had a clean sweep of the House of Assembly seats in the state. Interestingly, the stakeholders believed they could have done better at the recent polls especially having held sway for over a decade before they were dethroned almost four years ago. They however blamed their woes particularly in Kogi east which had produced the governors for the party since 1999 on the internal tussle within the district. This much was revealed by Dr Halima Alfa, who spoke on the resolutions reached after the meeting. She disclosed that the unfavourable outing of PDP during the last elections was due to the dispute among some PDP chieftains in Kogi East. Alfa however said a committee will be set up to review the cause of the crisis and find solution ahead of the election. Halima said “We took a holistic review of the last election, what happened in the state in terms of logistics, in terms  of thuggery, in terms of election, in terms of betrayal and in terms of the current leadership we have in the party and most importantly the tenure of the state exco. “All these were reviewed and we gave ourselves a task that a committee should be we up so that we can address each issue. In terms of our leadership crisis, especially as regards to Kogi East, the leadership crisis affected our election in Kogi east such that Kogi east lost both the National Assembly and the state House of Assembly. “It was basically because of the leadership crisis we have within the PDP leadership in Kogi east. Kogi west made us proud, they buried their difference but that did not happen in other senatorial districts “Especially in Kogi east where we produced a governor for 13 years- 9 years of Ibrahim Idris and four years of Idris Wada and we thought that something went wrong and we are going to address it. “We are going to we up a committee under the leadership of our national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus to address the issue and make sure that we are reunited so that what happened will never happen again.” While party members await the work of the committee seeking to address  the internal tussle of chieftains from Kogi East, Alfa also disclosed that the political zone might still produce the governorship candidate of the party. She said “As it is now, the general thinking is that it should come from Kogi east because that’s where the strength lies and you know politics is a game of number, you cant runaway from that. “The last time it was scuttled, the other person could not complete his two terms, so it is believed that they will still help kogi east to complete, then after that with dialogue on the table and all of us agreeing, with our own strength from East adopt a candidate from Kogi west to be the governor after that. Kogi west is behind us on this that the governor should come from Kogi east.” Although it remains hazy how other geo-political zones in the state will take this permutation, the domination of Kogi-East in the state has remained an issue in the politics of the state. But in the meantime, an immediate test of whether the party leaders can unite looms. This is in light of the congress of the party to produce its state executives, expectedly in June this year.  So far, the incumbent national chairman, Sam Ohuotu, Hon Alfa Fidelis and Seidu Odoma have entered the race. Fidelis has since started campaigning. Addressing newsmen in Lokoja the state capital, he stated that he has the magic ward to turn around the fortunes and make PDP win election in the state again. He said he had worked with strong names in politics like Senator Ahmadu Ali, erstwhile national chairman of party. He further enthused that having worked closely with the Sen Ali, he would not need anything else to succeed. Nevertheless, addressing its perception index in the state remains a hurdle, if how it performed in the past is anything to go by.  Most observers of the unfolding scenario agree that “self possessiveness, aggrandizement  and  individualism “ have taken over the character and attitude of most leaders of the party in recent times. A political analyst, based in Lokoja,  Dr Hammed Tarka, avers that the present structure of PDP in Kogi State has been infiltrated by other characters. While he noted that the party has been polarised, he underscored the impact of such division as reflective of how a party that was in power for 16 years in the state could suddenly fizzle out to a point where some former governors and party leaders ran away from the state because they are afraid to face the APC. According to Tarka,  “if the leaders were scattered at a time they were mostly expected to play the role of the leaders at a critical time like election period, what do you expect of the followers, they will move away to safety as well. Another analyst, Hon Sule Audu argued that Late Prince Abubakar Audu, for 16 years before his death, kept the opposition party intact till his final home call. “He held the party together,  funded it for 16 years and finally achieved his aim before his demise. Today,  Sule stated, “the leaders of PDP want to serve their personal interest as against the popular norm of party first.” Most stalwart of PDP are moving, in large number to the party in power,  APC, because of the olive branch extended to them after failing to make it in their party, Johnson Sule observed when he spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday. He added that nobody blames the men for whatever they do, “some of them have no principle and no philosophy of their action.” He continued, “it is clear that they have seen that their leaders have failed to protect them and have to seek protection wherever available this is seen as the reason for the action. He added that if the party they are going to fails,  they will bounce back .” A political science lecturer at Nasarawa State University,  Keffi, Ismaila Audu stressed that with the prevailing hardship in almost all the strata of the society it is not impossible. He added “The interest of the party should be considered topmost in the minds of the top players, those who have overtly or covertly benefitted from the fortunes of PDP in Kogi State.  Former Governor Alhaji Ibrahim Idris was fingered. He cannot run away from the obvious reality and those at the corridor of power when PDP was on throne must present themselves for service,  it must not always follow that someone has to work it out for others” Ismaila opined that the internal wrangling between the two former governors,  Alhaji Ibrahim Idris and Capt Idris Wada who are considered strong stakeholders in PDP,  should be resolved to prepare level playing ground for those intending to join the race for Lugard house. He further observed that if the two main gladiators choose to put personal interest above all consideration,  the party will suffer as it must and the people whose sole aim to govern the state on the platform of the party will face unavoidable defeat. He added, “It’s like taking defeatist strategy before the game.” “For PDP to get it right and bounce back to full fledge position it wish to be,  there should be ability to establish leadership on selfless person who can develop thick skin to accommodate nuances,  the supposed leaders must present true picture of leadership and work on the same page without rancour and misgivings,  they should rally round and bring the aggrieved members to a round table and close rank for the survival of the party until then they will have the hope of making meaningful impact again “, Ismaila opined.