The federal government has dismissed insinuations that it is planning on baning night life in the federal capital territory. Minister of the Federal Capital Teritory (FCT) Mohammed Bello disclosed this to state house correspondents after the federal executive council meeting presided over by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Recall that the Federal Capital Territory Development Authority (FCDA) through its Department of Development Control (DDC) had on Monday demolished the controversial Caramelo Lounge for allegedly contravening the FCT land use regulations. The FCDA authorities also revoked the Certificate-of-Occupancy (C-of-O) issued on the plot. The FCT minister,   however explained that all such activities must operate within the provisions of relevant laws governing the FCT. He said, the affected land has now become the property of the government. According to him, the master plan makes provisions for all activities including night clubs and does not allow a person to convert a building meant for a clinic into a night club. He urged Nigerians to go that extra mile and follow the law in developing properties in the city. Bello explained that everything in Abuja was being governed by laws, rules and regulations through the Abuja Master Plan and any violation of the plan would attract sanctions from relevant authorities. “I’m quite interested also with the way I see the feedback from the wider community. ” I have had cause to discuss with many of your colleagues where many people felt that this minister has not been demolishing. ” As a matter of fact `he is not demolishing so he is not working’ – it is due process, brother. “If you check the record you will be surprised how long it took to reach that painful decision of having to demolish that (property). “As a matter of fact that all the regulations were there – that the property is no longer owned, it has been reverted to government because it is very clear, check any C-of-O, you will see the conditions. “If there is a flagrant abuse and there are no efforts to correct that abuse, it reverts back to government. “But I want you to be rest assured that for every demolition you see maybe a hundred were saved.