The National Social Investments Office has disclosed that no fewer than 12 million Nigerians have directly benefited from Social Investment Programmes across the country. It also said 500,000 young people are employed under the N-Power Scheme, over 9.7 million children in over 53 thousand government primary schools in 31 States are being fed daily – with over a hundred thousand cooks; 422,992 care givers of households in 26 States are being paid N10,000 every two months under the cash transfer programme. Apparently reacting to the statement made by President Muhammadu Buhari’s wife, Aisha where she fiercely criticised SIP of the administration that there was little evidence to show that a good chunk of its budget was judiciously utilized, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Social Investment, Ismail Ahmed,  said over 1.6 million collateral free loans have been provided under the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) which includes the Farmer Moni, Market Moni and Trader Moni schemes. He, however, said the SIP Office is open to constructive suggestions and contributions from all well-meaning quarters to improve the reach and impact of the programmes that will benefit all Nigerians. Ahmed noted that the ‘’Trader Moni Programme is anchored under the Bank of Industry (BOI) as the finance house.’’ He said BOI recruits agents who go out to markets for enumeration of potential beneficiaries. ‘’The enumeration is followed by market activation which involves enrollment of already enumerated potential beneficiaries, after which payment commences to beneficiaries successfully verified by the Bank of Industry,’’ he said. Ahmed said Kano State has one of the highest numbers of N-Power Beneficiaries at 18,594 graduates currently employed in the programme and exactly 1,043,014 children are being fed public primary schools across the state. ‘’Conditional Cash Transfers in Kano State has a total number of 51,350 households as beneficiaries, and these beneficiaries are spread across a total of 1,651 communities in Kano,’’ he said. He also stressed the roles played by of some of our partners on these programmes, such as the World Bank, Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice (ANEEJ, comprising over 500 monitors), which leads the Monitoring the Use of Recovered Assets in Nigeria through Transparency and Accountability (MANTRA) project, as well as Action Aid – which organisation coordinates 37 indigenous CSOs – who also act as monitors to check the efficacy and delivery of these programmes. These CSOs continue to provide independent assessments as to how we are faring.