President Muhammadu Buhari and the country’s political leaders have been advised to involve the younger generation more in governance and leadership, so as to stem the increasing insecurity and other anti-social vices in the country. Leader of the Abuja North Stake region of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, President Ibeakalam Eric Mbibi, gave the admonition during the 3rd Annual Conference of the Abuja North Stake of the The Church, which held in Kubwa Ward II, Abuja. Mbibi, who spoke to reporters alongside special guest at the conference from Ghana, Elder Anthony Kaku, pointed out that idleness and joblessness have heightened the propensity of young ones particularly, to commit crimes against their fellow citizens. He charged the leaders to get closer to younger members of the society and maintain standards of integrity, accountability and honesty so that their followers would have more confidence in them and their ability to provide solutions to societal challenges. He noted that Nigerian political leaders have been unduly recycled over the years to the detriment of the youth Mbibi also added that the frustration the younger generation must be feeling in seeing the same set of older generation leaders seizing the future from them today. According to him: “Political leaders have been elected as we voted them, results have been called and we have our leaders and representatives. For us in the church we continue to encourage them to be men of integrity who will do what they said they would do; so that the followers will have greater confidence in them. “Government needs to understand the challenges of the people and when these challenges are addressed, it will go along way in addressing the security challenges. Now we have a lot of young men that are unemployed and idle. Even the Scriptures help us understand that an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. “When they are idle, they will think of evil things to do; but being engaged by government by providing opportunities or creating skill acquisition to gain employment or create employment themselves will drastically reduce security challenges in the country. “The leaders also need to be closer to these young people, and break the barrier between them and the young ones. I remember as a young man in primary and secondary school, and university in those days, there are some names we heard in government then, those names are still very much in government today. “You start wondering why they tell you that the youth are leaders of tomorrow. But you can’t see that tomorrow come because the same names are still turning up. So by the time the present leaders get the youth involved in the politics, government and leadership of the county, I think that will also help to address the security challenge.” Lending his voice to the charge, Elder Kaku stressed that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints remains apolitical and does not support one political party against another, but it encourages its faithful to venture into politics because it believes politics should serve humanity positively. According to him, “our Article of Faith says that we believe in being subject to Kings, Presidents and Magistrates in obeying, honouring and sustaining the law. So we are law abiding and we encourage people to go into politics, that is good. But the Church as it stands is apolitical. “We shall support anybody voted into power but we are apolitical. We encourage our members to go into politics because it serves humanity. We don’t support party A or party B but the government even though we remain apolitical.” On checking insecurity and other vices, he disclosed that the Church of Latter Day Saints runs a self-reliance programme through which we train people to be self reliant. He said that “people who have gone through this programmes have set up businesses of their own. And it is not just for members of our church but also for non-members and they have benefitted a lot from it”. Kaku added that his stay in Port Harcourt had endeared him to Nigeria and the people, who he said shared huge similarities with Ghanaians, despite colonial demarcation and history. “Let me speak for myself and family, we love Nigeria. We were in Port Harcourt for three years and my heart is still there. Anytime I have an assignment in Nigeria, I feel happy because I’m going to meet my brothers and friends here. We are one family, just unfortunate that the white man demarcated us apart. “Much of what happens in Nigeria happens in Ghana. As a church we do the best for our various countries and pray to God to bless our leaders and help them do the right things for mankind”, Elder Kaku stated. 