The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State has resolved to adopt “consensus” pattern to choose candidates for the forthcoming Local Government election on the 27th of July 2019. The PDP, through the State Chairman of the Party, Moses Cleopas, said using the consensus method will help the party to choose wisely ahead of the local government elections and the governorship seat in the state. Moses Cleopas therefore the party advised all the contestants to go and consult widely, the party has put all the necessary things on ground to win election in the state. The chairman said “We have confidence in our party. We know that by what we have put on ground and by the Democratic dividends that we have brought to our people and the spread of our party to every unit and ward in this the party,  we have the capacity to win election if freely and fairly conducted in this state.” “We want to tell all that the party is ready to mobilize all the grass roots for the governorship election that will come up on the 2nd of November. The party wants to reiterate that the party’s love, understanding and oneness with which we always go into elections is required of every party leader irrespective of highly placed you are.” “Maintaining that every ambition was legitimate, the chairman said “It is only how to go about actualizing it. PDP Bayelsa state is one house that can never be divided.” He continued “Because of the governorship election that will follow the local government election, it is the decision of the party that we will not have a very rancorous local government election.” “That is not to say that the doors shall be shut against prospective aspirants but in a situation where we will fighting ourselves for councillorship and for chairmanship elections, that shall not be encouraged that much.” In order not to disenfranchise people, the party he said believes that proper consultations across every local government area in the state shall be redoubled by stake holders adding that consensus candidate shall be encouraged as one family. “If it is possible we will have one candidate for each positions adding that they intend to build consensus.” “When consensus candidates emerge those are the candidates that we will be there that is not to say that if somebody has an ambition legitimately we must shut our doors against such individual.” “What we intend to say is that there shall be consensus building where consensus candidates will emerge.  Those are the candidates that will have to advance their ambitions.” “The whole essence is to ensure that we keep our party in one indivisible family. Every of our party members that has an ambition to contest the local government election should please as a matter of priority consult widely  and secure their  approval and support of their voters and stakeholders before the election.  The chairman said.