Stakeholder communities to Ojumole Well 1, in Ilaje Local Government of Ondo State have reiterated their commitment to support effort of Chevron in dealing with issues around the fire incident on Ojumole Well. The community also commiserated with Chevron Nigeria Limited and all the people of Ikorigho, Ojumole, Zion Ikorigho, Otumara, Ajegunle, Ilueri and Bowoto communities, who were impacted by the fire burning at the Ojumole Well 1 through the activities of oil thieves and illegal bunkerers. The community stated this in a statement by the community leaders signed by Rev. Ola Judah Akinyomi, Eng. Owolemi Aiyeran, Chief Ayadi,  Most Snr AP. Wale Tomiye, Comrade Igbekele Orisa (youth chairman) and Comrade Monday Mabanmi. (G.O.C ex militant Ikorigho land). According to the statement, “Immediately the fire started, Chevron informed our communities and our representatives were  part of the Joint Investigation Visit (JIV) team to the site of the incident on Saturday April 20, 2019. During the JIV it was discovered that the fire incident was caused by oil thieves who have been coming to steal crude oil from the facility. “It is a sad thing that valuable assets mostly owned by the people of Ilaje land and the environment have been imperilled by the actions of a few greedy individuals who tampered with the  idle well apparently to steal crude oil, thereby leading to this unfortunate fire incident” the statement stated. It added further that “We as Ilaje people are hospitable people and when a true Ilaje sees his neighbour’s house is on fire, he will  try to help not extort him. We therefore dissociate ourselves from all attempts to extort CNL or capitalise on this sad incident for political gains. The people doing this are not the appointed leaders of our people and therefore cannot speak for us. “We are already working with Chevron to ensure that our people remain safe and that the fire is put out as soon as possible.  We therefore advise our people not to go near the area where the fire is burning so as not to hamper the efforts to put out the fire or be in harm’s way.” The community however called on Chevron to provide relief materials for the people in the communities and implement all the activities being discussed in their continued engagement with leaders and representatives of our communities.