Hon. Olajide Olatunbosun represents Saki West/Saki East/Atisbo Federal Constituency of Oyo State in the House of Representatives. The lawmaker, who recently declared his intention to run for the position of Speaker, in this interview, tells journalists what he intends to do things differently, assuring that he will be a Servant-Speaker if elected. JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH was there for LEADERSHIP. What motivated you to join the speakership race in the House of Representatives? I decided to run because our country has gotten to a point that men of goodwill must not hold back. We have to stand up to be counted. The National Assembly, most especially the House of Representatives where I belong, needs good, quality leadership. A Nigerian that can unite members of the House across political divide and also unite Nigerians in general regardless of their ethnic and religious beliefs. The House also needs a Speaker that will ensure harmony between the executive and the legislature. I thank God for what the incumbent Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, has done and if by God’s grace I get elected as Speaker by my colleagues, I’ll ensure that those things he has done very well are consolidated. For instance look at the issue of the passage of budget, it’s been a source of concerns to Nigerians that our budgets don’t get passed on time. I can assure that if I get elected the appropriation law will be passed in record time so that government can run smoothly. I’ll also ensure that other bills coming from the executive and those coming from members are passed speedily. Also a source of concern to the people is that a lot of our youths are employed. How can we ensure that we come up with legislations that will drive the economy, the capital market, the investment environment to ensure that Nigerians invest in the country and attract foreign direct investments to Nigeria. One of the areas that gives me a lot of concerns is our public budgeting that is inefficient. At least I have been a member if the Appropriation Committee for the past three and half years and it is an area of priority for me. How can we make it better so that we can get value for money from the public funds committed to projects in the budgeting process. Above all if I become the Speaker of the ninth House of Representatives, I’ll ensure that day in day out, we do things that meet the expectations of Nigerians. You will agree with me that the working relationship between the leadership of the outgoing 8th Assembly is anything but cordial, how do you intend to work smoothly with the executive should you emerge the Speaker of the Ninth Assembly? I’m a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a loyal party man. The President is our father; he’s our leader. So this race is not about confrontation; it’s about working with the President to ensure that we deliver democratic dividends to Nigerians. I’m going to work with the party leadership and also with my colleagues across party lines whether in PDP or APGA, ADC or APC and all those fault lines I will ensure that they are minimized considerably. One of the major challenges facing the country presently is insecurity especially the nagging issues of kidnapping and Boko Haram insurgency. How do you intend to deploy the institution of the legislature to address this challenges? You know that it is a work in progress. If you see this year’s budget we made ample provisions for security agencies. For instance, the Office of the National Security Adviser’s budget is almost what the National Assembly got. That means it’s an area of priority. Zamfara also got N10 billion intervention fund for security. So, I think going forward we need to rejig our legislation. For instance you do kidnapping and you only get a slap on the wrists. The consequences must be very grave. We also need to encourage the security agencies in terms of trainings and motivation so that they can do more. My job will be to mobilise my colleagues to support the President to ensure that Nigeria is secured because without that nothing else can be done. Are you saying that you will set in motion processes for the review of the criminal laws? Yes! Definitely. We have to look at the laws. Some of these laws have been there for decades where they will prescribe three years in jail or a fine of N200! So we need to look at all those shortcomings. The law itself is dynamic and as we evolve in the society law must be reviewed to ensure that before people commit any crime, they must weigh the consequences. That alone can help to reduce crime unlike now when they reason that ‘if I do it (commit a crime) worst case scenario is a jail term of three years or a fine if N10,000.’ We must look at all those things to ensure that the law stands as a deterrent for the criminals. Do you intend to intensify oversight functions on the executive arm of government if you get elected? Definitely. Oversight is like a legislative audit. You appropriate funds and you must ensure that those funds are used in public interest. You don’t just budget. If there are projects that can not be measured physically you must develop a strategy to do so. I was in a committee that oversights a ministry. When they came most of their capital projects are more of trainings, they have skills acquisition, programs that can not be seen. So how do we develop metrics to measure such cases. Also for me, oversight and public budgeting process are issues that must be measurable so that if I give X fund this year and you come for budgeting next year, I need to see what you have achieved. So if it is going to be a long term project, we need to determine what we need to achieve in the immediate and short term. So oversight is key to my leadership. Can you assess your opponents in this race and tell me what edge you think you have over them? The edge is that I have a lot of friends among our colleagues who have bought into this my Speakership project. My interaction is across party lines; across few-political lines; across religious lines. Most of my friends are even from the northern parts of the country than from the South-west. I think that’s very important because when you want to lead, you are just one of the 360 members and you must be prepared to serve. So, I’m prepared to be a servant Speaker that’s here to serve the members not to lord it over them. People say I am very approachable. So definitely I’ll need to continue with that. Also I think God’s favour is working for me above everything else. There were rumours that some of your co-contestants have begun to influence your colleagues with money and other material things, do you have the financial strength to match them? That is strange to me. But I don’t need to bribe my colleagues to get them to support me because this is a project that we jointly own. All hands will be on deck for us to achieve victory. We are not going to bribe anybody; we are not going to coerce anybody; we are not going to harass anybody or use any other untoward means to force them to vote for us. They are ready to support the project and I believe that we will achieve victory together.  