The Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) , has rejected creation of state police being clamoured for by some Nigerians to combat insecurity. The PCRC National Vice Chairman, Southwest Region,  Alhaji Ibrahim Olaniyan, who spoke in Ado Ekiti  during the election of new set of executive for Ekiti chapter, said creating state police under a nascent democracy  like Nigeria will compound the problems of the nation. Against the stance of some state governors, the body insisted that the federal police remain the best organ of government to fight crime and improve the country’s electoral system. Olaniyan premised the body’s opposition to establishment on proposed state police, on the fact that they would be available instruments for politicians to deal with perceived opponents. According to him, “We are not ripe for a state police. Those calling for a state police, especially the state governors are saying that for selfish interests, because they  will unleash them on opponents during elections. “The only way to combat insecurity is by educating our people on the need to give information about the situations around them to the police for prompt action . “The police are not complicit in the insecurity being experienced, because it is the people that are harbouring criminals . They don’t report suspected criminals to the police for arrest”. Speaking on the imperative of strong community policing to make Nigeria free from kidnapping and killings, Olaniyan said: ” Police are  not magicians. All these criminals are living with us. They are not spirits. If they stay in an hotel, somebody has the hotel and he knows the data of those staying in his premises. “In the olden days,  people had this  misconception that if they give police any information, they will divulge it. This is not true. “Let us strengthen community policing. Nigeria has over 200 million population and we can’t be bold of one million or five hundred thousand policemen. We need to police this nation by ourselves by helping the police with the right information as members of the public”. Assuring that the PCRC would fortify the police intelligence gathering via veracious information that can make the southwest crime free, Olaniyan added,” Let us join the police in strengthening  community policing and this starts from our various homes and the way we partner police in fighting crime”. Olaniyan was elated that member- ship of PCRC has   increased to over 2,500 due to Governor Kayode Fayemi’s passion to fight crime in the state. The PCRC also conferred the matronship of the body on the Ekiti state first lady,  Erelu Bisi Fayemi. 