The Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN) have urged its members not to open for business today, May 7, as a way of expressing their displeasure toward the non-passage of the Pharmacy Council of Nigeria (PCN) Bill into law. A statement, signed by the Director of Information and Communication (DIC), ACPN, Pharm. Oluwaseyi Charles, made available to LEADERSHIP, revealed that the Bill which has passed through the Red and Green Chambers since 2017 had not been signed into law. Charles said ACPN has communicated the matter to President Muhammadu Buhari in a letter entitled, “An open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to give assent to the pending Pharmacy Council of Nigeria.” He said the decision by the National Executive Council (NEC) of ACPN to take appropriate action to draw government’s attention to the need for them to pass the PCN Bill into law was taken at a recent NEC meeting in Kano. He said, “Last week I was at the ACPN National Executives Council meeting at Kano. The Pharmacy bill issues dominated many other discussions when it was raised. The National Chairman bristled on sit as he encouraged members to make choice between doing nothing and making sacrifices at this emergency minutes. He retorted that members can choose to write their names on the history of time or wait for a proper mourning of the bill whose funeral is slated for 29th of May. “After a thorough consideration and deliberations, the NEC resolved that all Pharmacies in Nigeria should withdraw their services on  Tuesday, 7th of May, 2019 between the hour of 12noon to 2pm to register their annoyance with the current stalemate. This will involve media engagement and public awareness of the current circumstances surrounding the Bill. “As a community pharmacist bedeviled with a lot of supplanters and impostors, this is perhaps the toughest decision anyone can ever advice you to take. But reasons also abound why this may be the most honourable action you have ever taken in recent years.” Charles, while calling on ACPN members to close their pharmacies tomorrow said, “You should close your pharmacy tomorrow to be a part of this historical protest which will never be forgotten when the cloud is over. “You should close your pharmacy tomorrow to tell Nigerians that you are not  there with them only to make money, but also as a professional that is concerned about the rising pervasion of drug abuse that is ravaging our dear nation. “You should close your pharmacy tomorrow to tell Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN) and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), your sole regulators, that you are on their side. “You must close your pharmacy tomorrow to tell the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) president that this is one of the ultimate sacrifices you can pay to support his relentless sweat. “You should close your pharmacy tomorrow to pledge allegiance to the ACPN National Executives and NEC whom you choose to represent you: that you trust them and believe their judgement. You must close your pharmacy tomorrow to let the world know how you feel about drug abuse. “You should close your pharmacy tomorrow to stir confidence in the young pharmacists like me who believe you are a chief primary health care provider who deserved to be heard. Although this untrodden path may seems unpopular, I believe the huge success ahead worths the sacrifice and when all is said and done, it will be remembered, what you have done!” 