The ongoing onslaught on bandits, kidnappers and other criminal elements by combined troops of the Armed Forces as well as the Nigerian Police Force offers a ray of hope for Nigerians that insecurity in the country is close to abating, GEORGE AGBA reports Just as many worried Nigerians thought the nation was at a tipping point and were wondering what had become of the nation with reports of armed banditry, kidnapping, killings and other threats to national security and stability, the Armed Forces of Nigeria under the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin have started to record successes, following drastic moves being made to quickly reverse the narrative. Obviously not known to many, the military top brass has been working hard to re-shape its operational strategies to tame the hydra-headed monster. This was perhaps what motivated the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Worldwide, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, to caution against replacing the Service Chiefs hastily, saying that such a move could create fresh problems capable of compounding the challenges facing the nation. “I believe the service chiefs are working…They have been studying the situation of the country in terms of security and would have some plans they are working on. If they are just changed, the new service chiefs would have to start all over again’’, the cleric warned. General Gabriel Olonisakin, at a just-concluded Training Conference held at the National Defence College, Abuja, for top echelon of the military again emphasised the importance of synergy and ‘jointness’ in the operations of the armed forces when he charged Theatre and Field Commanders to adhere strictly to extant joint operational procedures and structures as a collective quest and resolve to combat emerging security challenges and ensure a safe and secure nation for socio-economic growth. In a press release issued last week in Abuja by the acting director of Defence Information, Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu, the participants rose from the conference with a renewed motivation to adhere to the combat philosophy of joint operations as a boost to synergy towards the decisive victory in the ongoing fight against insurgency, terrorism, armed banditry, militancy, kidnapping and other transnational crimes. He disclosed that combined troops of the Armed Forces deployed for Clearance Operations in conjunction with troops of OperationSharan Daji in the North West recently overran and cleared bandits in Sabon Birni and Dangulbi villages in Sokoto State. They also raided and dislodged bandit camps at Gobirawan and Gidan Garba forests killing five bandits while others fled leaving behind four Motor Cycles, two AK47 Rifles and one locally fabricated gun. In a similar coordinated operation, troops conducted Cordon and Search operations in some suspected hideouts in Zaki Biam in Ukum LGA of Benue State during which they arrested bandits, recovered one locally-made rifle, one pistol, three shotgun cartridges and one stolen motor cycle. Also, in another fierce encounter with armed herdsmen along Azoom River in Gwer West local government area of Benue State, troops recovered three locally made rifles, one AK47 magazine, 27 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition and one machete. Commenting on the successes following the armed forces joint operations, Concerned Professional Congress (CPC), a civil advocacy group, described the feats as highly commendable and a definitive affirmation of the resolve and resilience of the security forces to protect the Nigerian people against the excesses of criminality in the country. The group stated that the renowned cleric, Pastor Adeboye, deserved commendation for speaking the minds of those who believe that the security problems confronting the nation should be addressed beyond castigating the security forces. The group, in a joint statement issued in Abuja at the weekend by its Chief Media Strategist, Mr. Emeka Nwankpa and the Regional Rapporteur (North), Mallam Baba Al-Kasim, described Pastor Adeboye’s call for public understanding and support to the service chiefs as the greatest illumination and statesmanship urgently needed as the nation currently wades through its crucial moment. The group maintained that the current security challenges in the country were symptoms of socio-economic and political problems that many years of incremental leadership failures, impunity, bad governance and misplacement of priorities had created in the country resulting in restiveness in parts of the country. Nwankpa said that the present crop of leadership of the armed forces and other security agencies in the country were perhaps the most challenged set of military leaders since after the Nigerian Civil War, pointing out that they were contending with the practical fallout and consequences of years of misrule, impunity and the betrayed hopes of successive generations of Nigerians. CPC noted that notwithstanding the obvious challenges, the security forces under the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and the service chiefs have courageously turned the tide against insurgents in the counter-terrorism operations in the North-East even up to the Federal Capital Territory, militancy in the Niger Delta, kidnappings in the South West as well as the senseless killings in Benue/Plateau axis. “These feats and many more are no mean feats. Under the watch of the CDS, General Gabriel Olonisakin and the service chiefs, democracy was restored in the Gambia by our gallant armed forces with the active support and understanding of President Muhammadu Buhari. There is no doubt that in the coming weeks, a drastic change of dynamics in the ongoing joint security operations against all form of insecurity across the country is bound to take place. We hereby call for more prayers, support and understanding from the civilian populace’’, Nwankpa said. The civil advocacy group further maintained that the armed forces and families deserved more appreciation and support owing to scores of service personnel that had lost their lives thereby paying the supreme price in combat operations to keep the nation safe, secure and stable. It praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his total commitment and support to the Armed Forces of Nigeria under the synergy-driven leadership of the Chief of Defence Staff, Olonisakin, and other service chiefs. Nwankpa contended that his selection of the top echelon of the Armed Forces has brought immense gains especially in the entire North East which has been rescued from Boko Haram. He continued: “President Buhari deserves kudos for putting together these courageous military chiefs led by the tireless CDS, General Abayomi Olonisakin. The present threats to our national security and stability are unprecedented in form, scale and range but our security forces have been very resilient for the sake of our nation. “Our gallant soldiers have paid the supreme price. Our military leaders have been resilient in rising to grave security challenges by dislodging criminal elements threatening the security, stability, peace and unity of the country. The dynamics of the war against terror in the days ahead will take a new positive turn”. It emerged last Friday that the Police paraded 93 suspected kidnappers and armed robbers terrorising Niger, Katsina and Kaduna States, especially on the Kaduna-Abuja highway. It said that 35 AK47 rifles, 21 Dane guns, 500 live ammunition and other weapons including a rocket launcher were recovered from the suspects. Force PRO, DCP Frank Mba, in company of Kaduna State commissioner of Police, Aji Ali Janga, said the suspects were arrested in the last two weeks in joint operations in the affected states, which he attributed to the success of Operation PUFF ADDER involving the joint operations from operations, intelligence, technical, counter-terrorism and special protection units of the police, launched to dislodge criminals from the Kaduna-Abuja expressway and the entire country. In another development, the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mr Femi Adesina, in a statement last Sunday, listed efforts currently being undertaken to address the security crises, saying that government fully acknowledged that there were great security challenges in the country and that the Buhari-led government was not leaving any stone unturned to restore sanity and calm. According to him, Operation Puff Adder (Nigerian Police), Operation HARBIN KUNAMA 3 (Nigerian Army) and Exercise Egwu Eke 3 (Nigerian Army) were all launched in 2019, to complement the existing Operations Sharan Daji (launched in 2016 by the Nigerian Army) and Diran Mikiya (launched 2018 by the Nigerian Air Force) all of which he said were focused on tackling banditry and criminality in the North West. He said that Operation HARBIN KUNAMA 3 was launched on 1 April 2019 to ensure the complete defeat of the bandits fleeing military operations in Zamfara and escaping into Kaduna, Katsina, Kano, Niger and Sokoto States. He disclosed further that hundreds of kidnappers and bandits were arrested or killed since January, several camps/hideouts destroyed and hundreds of hostages rescued. In a two-week operation in February (lasting from Feb 4 to Feb 14), 80 hostages were freed by the Nigerian Army, with 37 bandits killed. Aerial bombardments of bandits’ camps, he added, were intensified in recent months with a new Air Force Base – the 271 Nigerian Air Force Detachment (271 NAF Det) commissioned at Birnin Gwari in Kaduna State in May 2019, to complement the 207 Quick Response Group (QRG) established in Gusau, Zamfara State, in 2017. Adesina said that between January 2019 and the 1st week of May, 2019, 270 suspected kidnappers, 275 suspected armed robbers were arrested and 105 assorted weapons including a large cache of ammunition recovered by the Nigerian Police within the states of the North West and North Central Nigeria. He emphasised that a spectacular beauty of the actions was ‘Operation Puff Adder’ which he noted was launched on April 4, 2019 as a multi-agency strategy, in collaboration with the Nigerian Armed Forces and the Department of State Services towards ridding the Kaduna – Abuja Expressway, Kogi, Katsina, Niger and Zamfara states of all forms of crimes and criminality- kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling, amongst others. He said Police operatives attached to ‘Operation Puff Adder’ arrested three notorious criminals involved in the kidnap of Channels Television’s staff, Mr. Friday Okeregbe- Hanniel Patrick, Abdulwahab Isah and Salisu Mohammed while on April 10 officers of the Opration killed nine notorious criminals on the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway and recovered 6 Ak47 Rifles, 1 Pump Action Gun, 1,206 Rounds of Ak47 Ammunition, 7 Magazines, 28 Cartridges and 158 Expended Shells from the criminals. On April 16, he said, operatives attached to the Operation arrested one Mallam Salisu Abubakar, 48yrs old, a native of Dutsinma LGA, Katsina State and a self-confessed spiritual father of kidnappers terrorizing Abuja-Kaduna expressway and parts of other North-West/North-Central states. The presidential spokesman disclosed that following the arrest of the kidnappers’ ‘spiritual father’, Police detectives attached to the Operation arrested 18 notorious kidnappers and armed robbers at different times and places across the country recovering twenty- two AK 47 rifles, five locally fabricated pistols and a cache of live ammunition from the bandits. On May 5, he said that the operatives courageously rescued 27 kidnapped victims unhurt including 5 Chinese nationals who were earlier kidnapped on 15th April, 2019 in Bobi, Niger State. They were rescued from a forest in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State, following air and ground surveillance. Two of the kidnappers died from injuries sustained during exchange of gun fire with the Police in the course of the rescue mission. Twenty-two other kidnap victims were rescued in Zamfara State and other parts of the country. Other accomplishments of the armed forces, he said, included: “2 February- Troops of 8 Division of the Nigerian Army on ‘Exercise EGWU EKE III’, in conjunction with other security agencies recovered dangerous weapons from criminals and political thugs in Sokoto State; 15 March- Troops of 72 Special Forces Makurdi, deployed at Yelwata, in Guma LGA, which is a border town between Benue and Nasarawa states, while on patrol along Yelwata-Kadarko road engaged armed robbers in a gun battle, which resulted in the elimination of one of the armed robbers, while others took to their heels. The suspects were dressed in military desert camouflage and robbing motorists along the road; “13 April- Troops conducting ‘Operation Sharan Daji’ in Zamfara State killed 23 bandits and arrested 18 suspected informants, cattle rustlers, kidnappers and logistics suppliers to armed criminals in the state. 20 April- Troops on Operation ‘HABIN KUNAMA III’, based on credible intelligence about bandits’ movements in Kirsa and Sunke in Anka LGA, Zamfara State, continued with the clearance operation into the hinterland to clear the brigands, arresting 18 informants and recovering arms and motorcycles; “22 April- Troops of 72 Special Forces (SF) Battalion Makurdi deployed for internal security operation in Katsina-Ala LGA, Benue State, averted a terrible clash between two Tiv clans-Shitile and Ikyora in the early hours of that day. They exterminated 5 mercenaries, recovered arms and ammunition; “May 8- A patrol team of 1 Division of the Nigerian Army raided a bandits’ den at Gonan Bature East of Rijana and Kasarami farm house in Chikun LGA, Kaduna State. The abandoned Kasarami farm house was reportedly forcefully occupied by criminals and had been used as a shelter and a place where victims of kidnapping were kept; “May 8- Troops on Exercise ‘HARBIN KUNAMA III’ arrested a notorious logistics supplier for bandits crouching between Jibia-Batsari axis -one Marwana Abubakar was arrested at Kwashabawa village in Jibia LGA, Katsina State; “May 8- Troops of 311 Artillery Regiment successfully conducted a raid operation on a suspected facility in Kontagora, Niger State. During the raid, some weapons were discovered and recovered; “19 January- The Nigerian Air Force deployed a fighter aircraft, along with support equipment, and a detachment of Special Forces (SF) personnel to Sokoto to further boost anti-banditry operations in Northwest Nigeria under ‘Operation DIRAN MIKIYA’; “7 February- The Air Task Force (ATF) of ‘Operation DIRAN MIKIYA’ intensified the bombardment of armed bandits’ hideouts in Zamfara State and environs. 21 February- The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) provided a mobile Jet A-1 fuelling facility to enable the refuelling of NAF Helicopters that would operate out of the 23 Quick Response Wing (23 QRW) Nguroje; “31 March- A Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Special Forces (SF) Team operating in Zamfara State successfully repelled attacks by armed bandits who attempted to invade Hayin Mahe and Hayin Kanawa Villages in Gusau Local Government Area; “8 April- The Air Task Force (ATF) for ‘Operation DIRAN MIKIYA’ renewed air offensive against armed bandits in Zamfara State and its environs. The air strikes are aimed at flushing out the bandits from their hideouts in Sububu, Rugu and Kagara Forests; “9 April- The Air Task Force (ATF), ‘Operation DIRAN MIKIYA’ neutralized dozens of armed bandits in Sector 2 Area of Operation in Zamfara State and also supported surface forces to move into the attacked areas to mop-up the fleeing survivors and recover their weapons. Some of the bandits fled across the border into Niger Republic. 13 April- Air Task Force (ATF) for ‘Operation DIRAN MIKIYA’ destroyed some logistics stores belonging to bandits at a location within Kagara Forest in Zamfara State;“16 April- In response to reports that high profile armed bandits were gathering around Rafi and Doka villages of Mada District in Gusau Local Government Area (LGA) of Zamfara State under the Area of Responsibility (AOR) of the 207 Quick Response Group (207 QRG), a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Special Forces (SF) Team was dispatched to the area to secure the 2 settlements; “22 April- The Air Task Force (ATF) for ‘Operation DIRAN MIKIYA’ neutralized about 10 armed bandits at Sububu Forest area in Zamfara State; and 4 May- NAF commissioned the 271 Nigerian Air Force Detachment (271 NAF Det) at Birinin Gwari in Kaduna State. The Detachment was established to serve as support Base and a blocking force for troops in Operations DIRAN MIKIYA and SHARAN DAJI”.