The founder of One Love Family, Sat Guru Marahaj Ji has warned against post electoral rancour in the country, saying unguarded utterances being made by politicians over the last general election in the country could endanger the nation’s democracy. Marahaj Ji in a statement made available to journalists urged the winner of the 2019 presidential election, President Muhammed Buhari and the aggrieved, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku to place the survival and success of Nigeria above personal considerations in the course of the litigation over the electoral defeat. According to him, the nation’s much awaited 2019 presidential election has been concluded and a winner has emerge, noting that the way the mood of the candidate who contested against the incumbent surprisingly went sour seems to threaten peace in the country. He said Buhari’s victory over Atiku transcends inter-party rivalry and any personal political interest thinkable. “Nigeria has been highly traumatized for many years. Our country is in need of healing without delay. No right thinking Nigerian politician will deny the fact that Nigeria’s obviously dilapidated state is a colossal national disgrace that must rank high in importance above all sectional and narrow interests. While noting that Atiku put up a brave and organized push for victory, Marahaj Ji said the success of the incumbent, President Muhammed Buhari deserves mature political reaction from the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party. He explained that the post-election legal action so far adopted by Atiku was legitimate, “but should be tempered with deep, objective and generous consideration of the state and fate of our only country, Nigeria. “The polity has been through too much heat to be once again subjected to another high-temperature political treatment that is characterized by explosive emotions and steaming agitation to rain sabotage on existing country-management processes. “There is a natural limit to the pressures a country can endure. Beyond the bounds of natural or installed endurance, catastrophe abounds. I urge the leadership of both political parties, APC, PDP, to temper their post-election disposition with patriotic wisdom”, he said.