The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) yesterday faulted accusations by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) that one of its feeders, which it claims has a history of incessant tripping caused the fire outbreak of 28th April, 2019 at its Apo Transmission Station. The company described the statement by TCN as incorrect adding that it runs against known engineering practice. According to AEDC’s spokesman, Oyebode Babs Fadipe, the TCN lost a 45MVA transformer and several other fittings to the Sunday afternoon fire. Fadipe in a statement said “we are saddened by the fact that instead of doing a root cause analysis of the immediate and remote causes of the fire outbreak, which consumed such an expensive and critical asset with the intention of preventing a reoccurrence, the TCN has resorted to a blame game with a defense that is not in tune with standard engineering practice”. According to AEDC, the basic engineering explanation is that whereas the 33kV line belongs to AEDC, the protection system at the source belongs to TCN. For a transformer to go up in flames, both the line and transformer protection apparatus belonging to TCN failed completely. It is the reason for the total failure of their protection architecture that should be investigated. The transformer that caught fire belongs to TCN. The protection apparatus for it are in the custody of and under the maintenance and ownership of TCN. “In any power system all over the world, tripping from outgoing circuits of feeders as a result of fault is an expected component of operations hence elaborate protection system is provided for such transformers against faults from outgoing feeders. These basic protection schemes are expected to fence the transformer from internal and external faults that usually occurs while in circuit,” he stated. AEDC further said that for such a facility, there are four levels of protection. ‘‘There is the protection at the feeder level (feeder H13 accused of causing the fire and property of AEDC). The 2nd level of protection is the protection that exists on the 33kV incomer (property of TCN) and this exists between the secondary side of the transformer and the busbar in the control room of TCN. The 3rd level of protection which is in-built in the transformer are of various types and they include winding temperature, oil temperature, pressure relief, buckholz, standby earth fault and restricted earth fault. This also within the control of TCN. The 4th level of protection for such a facility is the protection on the 132kV side of the 45MVA, 132/33kV side of the transformer. This is also under the control of TCN.  Of the four levels of protections, three of them which are the most critical are owned, controlled and maintained by TCN. The essence of these multilayer protection scheme is to ensure that where one of the protection devices fail, the others will come to the rescue of the electrical apparatus,’’ AEDC said.