People suspected to be cultists on Tuesday went on rampage in The Polytechnic, Ibadan, unleashed mayhem and destroyed six vehicles and two tricycles. LEADERSHIP gathered that they vandalised six cars and two tricycles were owned by some staff of the institution and commercial operators. The attack came few hours after the institution’s management directed the students to resume for academic activities. The institution had said the resumption became necessary in order for the students to continue their academic exercise for the remaining part of the first semester 2018/2019 academic session. The directive was contained in a statement signed by the Registrar.  Mrs Modupe Theresa Fawale, who disclosed that a town-and-gown meeting held on Monday, 6th May 2019, with parents, guardians, communities surrounding the institution as well as traditional rulers, religious leaders and landlord associations yielded positive results which culminated in the decision to re-open the institution forthwith. Unfortunately as they resumed it was gathered that the unknown gunmen invaded the institution some minutes before 4.pm on Tuesday and attacked anyone found in the institution. A management staff of the institution said, “There were rains of gunshots as some unknown men disrupted the peace at the South campus entrance of the institution on Tuesday afternoon, 7th May, 2019. ‘’The incident began some minutes to 4pm in the afternoon, where various properties were damaged ranging from private cars, tricycles, the commercial bus, and the security house at the entrance of the Institution. “Those people were three with two holding guns, and one with axe. They were in blue top and black beret. When they came, the security men manning the gate ran for their lives as they were shooting in the air as well as destroying cars with the axe. “Before the security operatives would reach the venue of the situation, the perpetrators of the acts have left the scene”. Another staff of the institution confirmed that,’’ the incident occurred at the South Campus of the institution where the assailants vandalised six cars and two tricycles.” When contacted, the institution’s Public Relations Officer  Alhaji Soladoye Adewole said he was yet to be ‘briefed’ about the incident. 