More authentic facts have emerged on the employment of Ms Aisha Abba Kyari, the daughter of Abba Kyari, the chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). The information showed that contrary to misleading reports being thrown into the public domain by some mischief makers, Aisha got the job on merit from a transparent recruitment exercise held in 2018. The reliable information gleaned by LEADERSHIP from the NSIA yesterday indicated that it was simply a matter of coincidence that Aisha got the job at a time her father was serving as a top appointee of the president. One of the top NSCIA management staff who sat in the board that interviewed Aisha along with other applicants for the office said that she emerged from a keenly contested exercise. According to the official, no special consideration was given to her because the position was “reserved for a competent and a highly qualified individual through a process devoid of any kind of sentiment or consideration.” Similarly, the NSIA’s managing director, Mr. Uche Orji, dismissed as fake, media reports of lack of transparency in the recruitment of Aisha adding that the position was advertised in the media mid last year. While defending its recruitment process, NSIA said in a statement issued by its head, Corporate Communications, Mr. Titilope Olubiyi, that “the story is absolutely false and without foundation. Ms Aisha Abba-Kyari’s recruitment did not violate or contravene the set recruitment process at the NSIA, which clearly has a robust and stringent recruitment policy that has enabled it to attract and continue to retain world class talents. This fact is demonstrated in the consistently impressive returns of the NSIA. “Ms Abba-Kyari’s recruitment is based on her application for one of the positions duly advertised by NSIA in mid-2018. Her selection was based on her academic qualifications, her international and local work experiences,” Olubiyi said. The NSIA boss, who faulted the allegations which went viral at the weekend, said although the report claims that AVP is the ‘highest level in the organisation’. This is not only false, but mischievous given that AVP1 is the 9th level out of NSIA’s 22-level grading system. “The report also claimed that she was given a car six months ahead, when the position does not entitle the staff to a car in the first place. In fact, she will require two promotion cycles to qualify for a car entitlement. “The report also claims that the candidate’s package was N32million, which is not true.” Similarly, the agency’s statement rubbished the quotes attributed to some NSIA’s directors, describing them as entirely false. It said: “At no time was there a forum at which any of the directors made such statements neither is there any document to validate the purported accounts as published. “There is no correlation between the recruitment process of the candidate, and the approval process of an executive director (ED) or board member. These are mutually exclusive and independent events. “Also, the allegation that board members refused to interview the candidate is false. In actual fact, a board member in the appropriate sub-committee of the board participated in the process.” Further findings by LEADERSHIP showed that prior to her employment at NSIA, Ms. Abba-Kyari worked as an assistant manager, Gas Commercial Team, National Integrated Power Project (NIPP). Earlier, she served as the personal assistant to the special adviser to the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. To her credit, Aisha has a Master’s Degree in International Business Management from the University of Surrey and Bachelor of Science, Chemistry from the University of Birmingham.