Former Police Affairs minister and chairman of the board of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Dr. Ibrahim Yakubu Lame, is dead. He was aged 66. Lame died in Abuja yesterday after a  brief illness. An educationist and politician, he ventured into politics and was elected a senator at the age of 39 in 1992 during the aborted Third Republic. Lame was appointed senior special assistant in August 1999 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He also served as the Bauchi State commissioner for Education and Information. A traditional title holder in Bauchi Emirate Council, Lame was also secretary of the Northern Union, which was founded by the late Senator Olusola Saraki, the father of the current Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki. The deceased was a governorship aspirant in Bauchi State in 2018 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC).  Saraki, Dogara, ACF Mourn Meanwhile, Saraki has expressed sadness over the death of Lame, who he described as a patriotic Nigerian. Saraki, in a statement issued yesterday by his special adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, described the late Lame as an astute educationist, parliamentarian and a patriotic Nigerian who played leading roles in the socio-political development of the country. Also, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, expressed shock over the demise of Lame (Santurakin Bauchi). In a statement he personally signed, Dogara described Lame as a statesman, patriot and leader par excellence who lived a life of selfless service and sacrifice. Dogara said: “He was a true democrat, foremost educator, peacemaker, advocate and champion of good governance in Bauchi State and Nigeria. “As a statesman, he worked tirelessly to enthrone good governance and saw to the historic and unprecedented electoral victory of the incoming government in our beloved state of Bauchi. “It is regrettable that he did not live to witness the coming into office of the government he helped to enthrone. He died at a time his elderly wisdom and counsel are much needed to steer the affairs of Bauchi State and indeed Nigeria. “I have lost an elder brother, leader, mentor and true patriot who contributed immensely to the educational development of Bauchi State as registrar, principal, education commissioner and later a school proprietor,” Dogara said. Similarly, the apex northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) said it learnt with grief and total submission to the will of Allah SWT the passing on of Lame, a former police affairs minister, a founding and member, Board of Trustees of the Forum. ACF in a statement issued yesterday by its national publicity secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, described the late Lame as a “fine gentle man, an astute administrator and educationist, a dogged politician who served Nigeria in various capacities as a commissioner of Education in Bauchi State, senator in the Third Republic, special adviser and minister in the 4th Republic. “He was an embodiment of hard work, diligence, selfless service and above all loyalty to the cause of nation building. The late Santuraki was a man of great intellect, amiable character and committed member of the ACF who stood for the unity, peace and progress of Nigeria,” Biu said.