Average return at the Nigerian stocks market declined by 6.06 per cent in April, as investors lost N714 billion in value as the market was characterised by high volatility. The decline witnessed in the period has been attributed by capital market analysts to foreign investors exit and uncertainty surrounding the nation’s economy as government delayed passage of budget. Activities in the nation’s economy has been on a slow side as All Progressive Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari emerged winner, though the decision was challenged by the opposition party, People Democratic Party (PDP). The All Share Index (ASI), the common value-based index that tracks share prices at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), dropped from the month’s opening index of 31,041.42 points to close April at 29,159.74 points, representing average month-on-month decline of 6.06 per cent. Aggregate market value (capitalisation) of all quoted equities also declined from its month’s opening value of N11.672 trillion to close on April 30, at N10.958 trillion, representing a net capital depreciation of N714 billion. This is despite the new listing seen in the month. Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCOL) listed by Initial Public Offering (IPO) of 1.354 billion ordinary shares at a listing price of N4.65 per share. The listing added N6.29 billion to the market capitalisation of the Exchange, further deepening the Nigerian capital market. However, sectorial indices closed negative as at April 26, 2019, with NSE Industrial Goods index led with a decline of 7.36 per cent, while Insurance index followed with a decline of 5.40 per cent. Consumer Goods, Banking and Oil & Gas indices declined by 5.38 per cent, 4.48 per cent and 3.75 per cent, respectively. Market breadth for the period under review was negative with 24 stocks closed positive, while 57 stocks declined. Chams led the gainers table by 150 per cent to close the month of April at 50 kobo per share. Dangote Flour Mills followed with a monthly gain of 84.31 per cent to close at N18.80, while Japaul Oil and Maritime Services rose by 65 per cent per cent to close at 33 kobo, per share. On the other side, Associated Bus Company led the decliners table for the month by 43.40 per cent to close at N30 kobo, per share. Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) followed with a loss of 29.65 per cent to close at N14 and Union Diagnostic & Clinical Services declined by 23.33 per cent to close at N23 kobo, per share. Chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting Limited, Mr. Ambrose Omordion reacting, said that investors in the Nigerian have shown little enthusiasm in taking advantage of bargain opportunities in the equities market despite the successful conclusion of the general elections which hitherto was expected to be a major obstacle to increased investment appetite. He also noted that crude oil prices impressively above $70 per barrel and positive first quarter (Q1) numbers released by listed companies, this has not improved the bearish mood in the market. According to Omordion, one can attribute the ‘wait and see’ approach of investors despite the positive economic indices to the need for a clear policy and economic direction on the part of government  which will further assure investors, increase confidence and restore positive investors’ appetite. Also, the head, Securities Dealing Desk of Golden Securities Limited, Azeez Bello said that the post-election bears was deepened by confidence crisis arising from electoral process, exit of smart money immediately the outcome was opposite their expectation, this triggered the prevailing low liquidity in the market, coupled with high rate in fixed income market as government conditions to borrow. He added that the weak corporate earnings that reflects weak economic fundamental in 2018 and so far in 2019 despite the seeming relatively improved economic indices. On his part, managing director and chief executive officer, APT Securities and Funds Limited, Mallam Kurfi Garba attributed the decline to foreign portfolio investors exit and the anxiety surrounding the end of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele tenure. He said:“You see companies releasing their first quarter result and when you look at it, quite a number of them are doing very and even those who declined in turnover, you will see that they improved in their profitability. “My understanding of the market is that the foreign investors are not coming to the market. The CBN governor tenure is just a matter of days and because we are not sure who will be the next CBN governor and these are the people that will decide the effect in terms of foreign exchange policies whether if you bring your money, you will be able to take it. So, because of this, the foreign investors decided to stay away. “The other issue is the late passage of budget. In a country where the federal government is the major spender and you need capital budget to sustain because the current budget and also it is obvious to everybody that the present ministers are going to step down by May. Garba said “the uncertainties covering the economy are so much that you hardly decide those obvious challenges. So, the foreign investors rather wait and see at the fixed income because at the fixed income, you know your rate. So, these uncertainties can determine what the next line or direction the market will go or look like. “So, it is a big challenge to our regulators, market and all those that matters. For the first time since four years, we have no board for Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  This has never happened in the history of capital market and also, we do not have a substantive director-general of SEC.” However, Garba noted that “We are hoping the economy will move faster and do not forget that MTN is listing in May, 2019 and that will also attract foreign investors and revive the capital market.”