The executive chairman of Innovative Risk and Investment Solutions (IRIS) Limited, Prof Charles Inyagete, has expressed optimism that building  a new energy system would address some of the climate change issues. He disclosed this to newsmen in Abuja, on the sideline of the 2019 Facilities Management (FM) forum, organised by the Total Facilities Management Limited (TFML), an event that coincided with the 20th anniversary of TFML. Inyagete asserted that planning and implementation of green cities required that developers and other stakeholders emulate best practises, noting that facilities management is a strategic function that should not be relegated to the background. He stated that with cities accounting for about 75 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions globally, that 53 per cent of cities were highly vulnerable to serious and near-term climate change effects. To this end, he noted that Nigerian cities would be a vital nexus for mitigation and adaptation initiatives, towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The expert said that there was the need for federal government to leapfrog developed nations by adopting clean technologies and early economic strategies since Nigeria was yet to build the majority of its urban infrastructure. He was hopeful that Nigeria was rapidly grasping with the challenges, as wide varieties of green growth initiatives were underway. Inyagete, who is also the immediate past managing director of Nigerian Mortgage Refinance Company (NMRC) maintained that large Nigerian cities were currently developing resilience strategies. He emphasised that Lagos State has a climate change policy and action plan, adding that Kano, Kaduna and Abuja were developing holistic urban resilience strategies. The expert however lamented that urban businessmen blamed access to power as their number one constraint to growth. According to him, “Sub-national energy strategies are being developed which will increase power availability in cities, provide cleaner power and enable homes and businesses to move away from high-carbon diesel generation and kerosene.”