As part of measures to squarely contain all forms of insecurity in Birnin Gwari local government area and its environs, Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai, yesterday, commissioned the 271 Nigerian Air Force detachment in Birnin Gwari. The 271 NAF detachment is the brain child of the chief of air staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadiq Baba Abubakar, as part of the Air Force efforts at combating the persistent insecurity in the area. He commended the Emir of Birnin Gwari, Alhaji Jibril Zubairu Maigwari II, for donating part of his land for the detachment establishment, while assuring that the state government would ensure that he his compensated accordingly. He assured that President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to ensuring total defeat of all forms of terrorism. “The prevalence of terrorism, armed banditry and kidnapping, has increased in recent times. And we are grateful that the Armed Forces of Nigeria, particularly the NAF, is boosting security operations and developing even more effective strategies to end this menace. “The establishment of the 271 NAF Detachment, Birnin Gwari, is therefore, timely, as it will further boost the ongoing Operation Diran Mikiya, Operation Sharan Daji and play a very crucial role in restoring and maintaining the peace in all affected areas. “While we recognise the efforts of the Nigerian Air Force, we also want to appeal to the chief of air staff to approve the deployment of NAF Special Forces for the Abuja-Kaduna road to participate in the new Joint security operations aimed at confronting the prevalence of armed banditry and kidnapping that has bedeviled the road for the last two years”.  Earlier in his address, the CAS said, the NAF, for some time now, has been involved in various internal security operations in the country, either singlehandedly or in conjunction with sister services. One of such operations is Operation Diran Mikiya, which he said, is intended to neutralise and flush out armed bandits and kidnappers, as well as cattle rustlers operating in the Northwest region.  “Accordingly, the 271 NAF Detachment was established as a blocking force for troops involved in Operation Diran Mikiya And Sharan Daji.  “The NAF is committed to seeing that the territorial integrity of our dear country is preserved as this is the only country we can call our own.  It is our desire, therefore, to ensure that the menace of terrorism, kidnapping, cattle rustling and armed banditry are curtailed, if not completely eradicated.  “The commissioning of 271 NAF Detachment Birnin Gwari is a testimony of NAF’s commitment to the fight against insurgency and banditry in Nigeria.