Despite the huge potential of micro and small businesses to the economic growth and development of Nigeria, the sector remains largely underfunded and financial services are lacking, particularly in the rural areas. BUKOLA IDOWU, writes on the role the National Microfinance Bank is expected to play in driving economic growth. With over 37.07 million micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) accounting for more than 84 per cent jobs in Nigeria, the subsector remains a critical aspect of the economic growth and development of the country. In spite of the critical nature of this subsector of the economy, funding to microbusinesses still remain a challenge as less than one per cent of credit in the banking industry is channeled into MSMEs which constitute up to 90 per cent of businesses in Nigeria. Many of the small businesses have had to go by with funds from their savings or personal loans from their family and friends, despite several government funding initiatives.  CBNs’ Micro Credit Policy Framework The existence of the huge financing gap and un-served market, had prompted the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to initiate a micro credit policy framework. In 2015, the CBN came up with the Microfinance Policy which was initiated in December 2005 in response to the challenge of financing the real sector, MSMEs and rural finance. Although micro finance operations have been in existence in Nigeria, dating as far back as pre-independence years. Its beginnings in Nigeria was informal and small-scale with traditional thrift saving system and activities of the traditional group networks serving as proprietors of financial exchange; such as Esusu, Ajo, Adashi, rotating savings and credit associations amongst others. Government’s initiative to meet the socio-economic complexities and needs of the rural communities and reach rural areas, resulted in the establishment of community banks. Community banks emerged to meet the needs of the poor in order to increase their access to finance and improve their income generating activities. However, the failure of these community banks resulted in the establishment of Microfinance banks in Nigeria. The objective behind the establishment of microfinance banks in Nigeria was to provide diversified, affordable and dependable financial services to the active poor, in a timely and competitive manner. The Policy is meant to serve as a guide for the activities of informal unregulated institutions as well as new entrants in the subsector, as well as ensuring that operators within the subsector are guided by a set of rules, principles, and a robust legal framework.  Unbanked, Poverty Alleviation, Access To Finance Speaking at the 27th seminar for financial journalists that was organised by the Central Bank of Nigeria in Gombe recently themed: “Repositioning Microfinance Bank for Real Sector Growth” CBN Director, Other Financial Institutions Supervision Department (OFISD), Tokunbo Martins, said the microfinance policy is to provide financial services to the poor who are traditionally not served by the conventional banks. These financial services she said are to include credit, savings, micro-leasing, money transfer and payment services. However 14 years after the policy allowed the operations of microfinance banks, Martins noted that rather than mobilise funds and ease access to credit for microbusinesses and rural communities, microfinance banks (MFBs) are operating like mini banks with a large concentration in urban areas. The CBN Director noting that MFBs have not been able to have the desired impact on the society, stressed the importance of microfinance banks in poverty alleviation, in providing access to finance as well as in banking the unbanked population in the country. According to her, deposit mobilisation by many of the MFBs is not enough, “otherwise why do we have so much currency outside the banking system? With the statistics within the CBN, what we are seeing is that the currency outside banks is still huge. “Cash should either be in vaults of banks or in vaults of CBN and we know how much we have issued. So when we minus the one in our vaults and we minus the one in the banks then where is the rest? What we are saying is that this is the money MFBs should pursue and encourage them to, not just keep it under their pillows or wherever they are putting it.” With over 80 per cent of the population working in MSMEs contributing over 80 per cent of the jobs and over 80 per cent of GDP, Martins pointed out that microfinance banks would be pivotal to economic growth if only they can enhance their reach and give out loans to MSMEs to further develop their businesses. Stressing the importance of access to finance by MSMEs she said “when you have a business that is profitable, you can enhance that business by borrowing to expand that business as long as the cost of borrowing is less than the return you get on that business. “The micro finance banks are supposed to be more nimble, are supposed to serve and are supposed to be owned, exists to the rural areas and communities and are supposed to serve them better because these are the majority. “It is unfortunate that some or many MFBs are not achieving what they should achieve. When you hear of stories of microfinance in other jurisdictions, like in Bangladesh, microfinance was a success and 50 million people were lifted out of poverty.”  Why MFBs Are Not In Rural Areas On his part, the National Coordinating Consultant FCT Project, Monitoring Reporting and Remediation Office, Steve Ogidan pointed out that a significant number of micro finance banks are not present in the grassroots or rural areas which accounts for 63.1 million of the 99.6 million the adult population of Nigeria. He said with over 36 million Nigerians adults are still financially exclusive. He said “If these 36 million are financially excluded and microfinance banks are able to reach them, however, the figure of eight million plus that are current customer base of Nigerian MFBs are not in all the 36 states of the federation and that is why NIRSAL is committed with over two million farmers” to bring in more Nigerians into the financial system. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, in his opening remarks at the seminar disclosed that the aggregate loans granted by MFBs to MSMEs in the country stood at N482.896 billion as at December 2018, adding that it is working to increase the share of micro credit as percentage of total credit to at least 20 percent by 2020. According to him small businesses had been more successful in securing credit from the microfinance institutions rather than conventional deposit money banks, as data from the licensed credit bureaus indicated that the operations of micro finance banks had helped to improve financial inclusion among smallholder peasant farmers, artisans and other small business operators. Emefiele, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, Mr. Edward Adamu, likewise lamented the inadequate spread in the location of the MFBs in relation to their target beneficiaries, demand for immovable collaterals for loans, high interest rate, and absence of a credit reporting system.  CBN’s New Approach For Unbanked One of the ways it is looking at increasing spread of micro credit is through the National Microfinance Bank (NMFB) which is billed to spread its tentacles majorly to the rural areas using the legacy assets of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST). CBN Director Corporate Communications, Isaac Okoroafor speaking on the NMFB said it was aimed among other at bringing microfinance institutions and activities into greater focus in order to deepen financial inclusion and alleviate the financing needs of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMES),” he said. According to him, “The bank has since then worked towards increasing access to financial services for the economically active poor in order to enhance job creation and poverty reduction. The bank remains committed to the economic empowerment of disadvantaged groups including women and actively seeks to achieve this through the instrumentality of microfinance amongst other initiatives.” “Only recently, the bank took some actions including a thorough review of the subsector, increased surveillance and revocation, where necessary. These measures were intended to revitalise the sector to ensure the institutions remain mission-focused and to grow public confidence in sub-sector. “In a developing economy like ours, the link between microfinance and the real sector is quite strong. Microfinance banks are conceived to serve as critical financial lubricants for the real sector, which is the pillar of sustained economic growth. “At the moment, economic policy in Nigeria faces a major challenge of reviving growth which is the (only) sure path to ending pervasive poverty. Microfinance has worked in this regard in many climes and promises to work in Nigeria, if we get it right.”  NMFB And Postal Banking To The Rescue NIPOST has said it will be refurbishing over 2000 of its outlets across the country which will be used by the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB). According to the Postmaster General of the country, Adebisi Adegbuyi, 106 NIPOST outlets have already been selected for the first phase of the rollout of the NMFB branches across the country. Adegbuyi who was represented at the two day seminar by NIPOST Director, Finance and Investment, Usman Shaba noted that the move was in line with the drive for financial inclusion. Stating that  “it is unfortunate that for a long time the role of the post office was not fully appreciated” he said the investments made by the government in postal outlets all over the federation in times past would now be put to use to reach the unbanked. “A lot of Nigerians are unbanked and these unbanked people are mostly in the rural communities and these postal outlets will be leveraged upon to promote financial inclusion in the unbanked communities. So what NIPOST is doing essentially is to improve on these outlets. Over 2000 of them nationwide to make available as outlets for the commercial banks and in particular the NMFB. “Prior to this, the CBN having looked at the infrastructural spread of NIPOST have granted NIPOST a super-agent licence which makes it possible for NIPOST to render financial services on behalf of virtually all the commercial banks in Nigeria. “NIPOST is very ready to deliver the 106 outlets that the NMFB has targeted for take-off. NIPOST officials along with NMFB and CBN have gone through all the regions of the country and the reason why we even selected the 106 is to make sure that each of the outlet we selected are good enough and ready” he stated.