The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has explained the recent staff movements in the Corporation, saying it was normal replacement and backfill exercise to bridge the gap occasioned by impending retirement of some management staff of the Corporation, among others. The Corporation retired 11 of its senior management staff and redeployed 19 others, to ensure that no vacuum was created after the final exit of the concerned staff. The exercise according to the Corporation, was normal routine replacement and backfill exercise to bridge the gap occasioned by impending retirement of some management staff of the Corporation, among others. Group general manager, Group Public Affairs Division, of NNPC, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, in a statement yesterday in Abuja, explained that the exercise involved statutory retirement of 11 of its senior management staff as well as redeployment of 19 others, saying such replacements were always effected before the final exit of the concerned staff. Ughamadu stated that in all 30 senior staff were affected by both the statutory retirements and redeployment. He gave the list of staff on statutory retirement between May 1 and July 31, this year to include: general manager, Chad Basin, Aniya Francis Umaru, who is from the north-eastern part of the country and retired on May 6, 2019. Others are: Adewale Solomon Ladenegan, managing director, KRPC, who hails from the south-west and retired on May 13, 2019, and Musa Sulyman Gimba, who is the group general manager, NNPC Leadership Academy, who also is from the north-east and retired on May 14, 2019. Others include:Umma Ayuba Musa, who is the general manager, HR & Admin Services, Duke Oil, from north-west and retired on May 19, 2019;  Emmanuel–Ate Mariagoretti Ndidi, general manager, Support Services, NGC, from the south-south region and retires on May 30, 2019; Tsavnande Thaddeaus Atighir, executive director, Operations, from the north-central. The rest are: Okor Ovieghara, general manager, Upstream/TA to GMD, who hails from the south-south region; Barau Mohammed Kabir, managing director, NGMC, who is from the north-western region; and Dawaki Salihi Abubakar, general manager NLNG, LIMS, from the north-west. Also retired include:  Ibrahim Aminu Bagudu, executive director, ETSD, NPDC, who is from the north-west and Yusuf Shimingah Matashi, managing director, NPDC, who hails from the north-western region retires on  July 17, 2019. Ughamadu also named the following to be among the 19 staff that were redeployed: Anas Mustapha Mohammed, Usman Faruk, Ali Muhammed Sarki, Osarolube Ezekiel, Ihya Aondoaver Mson, Isah Abubakar Lapal, Umar Hamza Ado, Garba Adamu Kaita, Ossai Uche, Usman Umar, Ehizoje Tunde Ighodaro, Ahmed Mohammed Abdulkabir and Lere Isa Aliyu. Others are: Richard-Obioha Maryrose Nkemegina, Dikko Ahmed, Ibrahim Sarafa Ayobami, Usman Yusuf, Sambo Mansur Sadiq and Buggu Louis Tizhe. The NNPC spokesman said it was usual for the Corporation to obtain necessary approvals on replacements of retiring staff ahead of schedule.Ughamadu stated that the exercise was effected to ensure uninterrupted operations of the Corporation in achieving its mandate, adding that extant corporate guidelines were strictly followed in the process.