On May 3 this year, the global community gathered to celebrate the World Press Freedom Day. On this day every year since 1993, the world celebrates fundamental principles of press freedom, evaluate press freedom around the world, defend media from attacks on their independence, and pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the line of duty. The year’s event was co-hosted by the African Union Commission, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), the Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia with the support of the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and in partnership with many other media stakeholders. The theme, “Media for Democracy: Journalism and Elections in Times of Disinformation” was chosen for the critical link between media, democracy and governance in a globalised world with a focus on the current challenges faced by journalists in covering elections, along with the media’s potential in supporting peace and reconciliation processes. It also beamed a search light on the challenges posed to media practice by new media or social media where all manner of persons have taken advantage of its ease in dissemination and relative facelessness to spew misinformation and disinformation which negate the very core of the work of the media, which is, to disseminate accurate information in a way that enlightens the public and builds society, along with its concomitant power to hold the leaders accountable. There were goodwill messages from world leaders to mark the event in which they stressed the need for responsible journalism; one that builds society, not one that destroys it. Other commentators reiterated that for journalists to remain the watchdogs of the society, they must recommit themselves to the ethics of the profession, and adopt fairness, accuracy, objectivity balance, and other ideals that undergird the profession. In Nigeria, the task of the media is so important that it is the only profession mentioned in Nigeria’s constitution.  President Muhammadu Buhari used the occasion to comment on the performance of the media in the country in the just-concluded general elections. The president noted that misinformation in the form of fake news and disinformation was a growing trend just as some unhealthy practices of certain sections of the media needed to be stamped out as they were capable of distorting social order. Categorically, he asserted that his government was committed to the freedom of the press and to transparency in governance affairs. This newspaper is glad to note that, in recent times, not much harm has come the way of Nigerian media practitioners in terms of the state employing hard tactics against the press. That, unfortunately, cannot be said of what obtains in other climes. In some countries, those who wield state power as well as powerful men and underworld gangs and individuals routinely order the jailing, killing and maiming of journalists for trying to expose corruption, fraud and other illegalities committed against the people. When such attacks are targeted at journalists, the assailants are hardly ever brought to justice; it is often seen as part of the dangers associated with the job. Since 1992, a total of 1,340 journalists around the world have been murdered in the course of their work. Last year alone, the number was 95, according to the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ). The most prominent was the killing of Jamaal Khasoggi, a prominent and vocal critic of the Saudi government. Khassogi was allegedly murdered by security agents right inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey, where he had gone to process documents for his impending marriage to his Turkish bride. It was a killing that caused months of public outrage and a serious diplomatic row between Istanbul and Riyadh, with world figures calling for full disclosure on who ordered the killing, especially after Saudi authorities first tried to cover up the murder. Aside those that have paid the supreme price, many others are languishing in jail – 68  in Turkey, 47 in China, 25 in Egypt and 16 each in Saudi Arabia and Eritrea – for doing their constitutionally assigned duty of being the watchdog of the society. As the world remembers the important work of journalists in enthroning democratic culture and good governance, governments around the world are enjoined to take special note of the message of the United Nations secretary-general, António Guterres, who said: “No democracy is complete without access to transparent and reliable information. It is the cornerstone for building fair and impartial institutions, holding leaders accountable and speaking truth to power.” It is our opinion, too, that journalists owe themselves a duty to uphold the best traditions of the profession and not expose themselves to avoidable risks that may constitute a threat to their lives and a wrong perception of the media in the eye of the people.