Cisco, global technology leader said yesterday that it is set to launch a new repair Centre, train one million new members of Cisco NetAcad and introduce Cisco Edge in Nigeria. This will reinforce its commitment to support the digitisation of Africa’s communities, businesses and governments through several initiatives for skills and talent development, innovation and job creation. By investing in repair centres in Nigeria, Cisco intends to contribute to job creation and skills development. The new repair centre would work as a partner programme which aims to work with selected distributors who would repair and restore Cisco hardware and make high quality, refurbished technology accessible, especially for small and medium sized organisations. In addition to repair, Cisco intends for the centers to carry out testing, quality engineering, fulfillment, process management and procurement, as well as inventory control, serving Cisco’s customers in Nigeria. Speaking on the partner repair programme, Olakunle Oloruntimehin, general manager Nigeria and West African Countries, Cisco said, “We are living in a world that is changing faster than ever imagined. We are inspired by the prospect of an economy with abundant jobs, a place where entrepreneurs can thrive. Our goal is to enable small and medium businesses to accelerate their growth by helping them access our world class technology. “Our goal is to create value through ‘glocal’ manufacturing and channel models. By glocal, we mean utilising global manufacturing practices with local execution. We look forward to a Nigeria where everyone will have access to technology and utilise it for the growth of the economy,” Oloruntimehin added. The repair centre is part of Cisco’s vision to have technology enable inclusion and opportunities for people, wherever they live and whatever their condition. For more than 20 years, Cisco has invested in educating and upskilling students,  graduates and unemployed youth through its Networking Academy (NetAcad). NetAcad provides students hands-on digital skills to prepare them for careers in the digital economy. Since its launch in 1998, close to 700,000 students participated in NetAcad courses throughout the African continent. This year, the company has set an ambitious goal to train an additional one million students in Africa (including Nigeria) by 2025. The students would  be trained during the next three years, followed by re skilling initiatives for active workforce and job seekers, based on content from Cisco NetAcad. ation of Digital Learning Hubs in public libraries, accessible by the local population. The company also plans to actively engage with employers to identify job opportunities that align to the skills of NetAcad students and alumni.