The federal government has approved the establishment of a National Commission for Secondary Schools(NCSS), to regulate secondary school education in the country. The minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu revealed this yesterday during his valedictory press briefing aimed at revealing his achievements in the last four years. The minister who disclosed that over the years, there have been clamour for the establishment of a Commission to take responsibility for the regulation of the secondary school education in the country, added that President Muhammadu Buhari has assented to the bill and the implementation would commence immediately. The minister also revealed that in spite of the economic down turn in the country, that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has invested N1.338 trillion in education in the last four years. “The Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) interventions in states have recorded a total of N350bn, while Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund ) and NEEDS Assessment Interventions have recorded N857bn with the main ministry and other agencies recording N86bn, totalling N1.338 trillion in the last four years. “This is aside from the N25bn just approved for public universities. These figures have nothing to do with personnel and over head cost in the education sector, which are also well over a trillion naira,” he said. Adamu added that the federal government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) were currently renegotiating the 2009 agreement and expressed hope that the issue of strike will be a thing of the past in the country in the near future. The minister who apologised for his inability to reduce the number of out-of-school children estimated to be  10, 193,918  by a half, as he earlier promised, added that the ministry has taken some major steps which he hopes the next minister will leverage on. In the reduction of adult and youth illiteracy, Adamu said that in the last four years, the ministry embarked on sensitization and advocacy visits so as to reduced the number which was estimated as 60.5 million, representing 39 per cent of the population. He expressed gratitude to the executive secretaries, registrars of parastatals and agencies in the ministry, the permanent secretary and the directors in the ministry who had helped him to deliver in the last four years.