In a bid to add to its growing product range, Monument Distillers Nigeria Limited has launched Four Cousins wines into the Nigerian market. The newly unveiled wine is in addition to their growing portfolio which includes Bannerman’s Finest Scotch Whisky, Grace du Roi Fine Wines, Malfy Italian Gin and most recently, the Nigerian classic, 1960 Rootz. The Monument Distillers Nigeria Limited, which was recently formed after Kensington Distillers and Vintners (KDV) acquired the 1960 Rootz brand, now has the exclusive distribution rights for Four Cousins Wine in Nigeria Speaking at the unveiling, managing director, Monument Distillers, Ajay Malhotra explained that the addition of Four Cousins Wine to its growing portfolio of international brands will help fulfil Nigerian consumers’ demands for a broader range of quality products to choose from. He said, “Four Cousins offers a versatile range of fine wines that suit any social occasion where friends and family celebrate life and being together. The natural sweet red enhances the flavours of barbecued red meat and roast chicken, while the natural sweet white pairs beautifully with seafood and spicy dishes. The natural sweet rosé also makes a good choice for special occasions like weddings, funerals and christenings.” Malhotra explains, “The latest IWSR revealed that in 2018, over 37 million bottles of wine were sold in Nigeria, so we know that Nigerians are in the market for interesting, authentic, quality brands with provenance and a story to tell. Four Cousins is exactly that.” “As globally-renowned wine-producing country, South Africa’s number one selling bottled wine since November 2010, we are confident that Nigerians will recognise and embrace not only the excellent quality of the liquid, but also the heritage and history behind it, Malhotra added”. Meanwhile, latest International Wine and Spirits Report (IWSR) indicates that total wine sales in Nigeria are showing a compound annual growth rate of 15.3 per cent for the 2016/2017 year, with still wine outperforming the category at 20.1 per cent.