Dangote Cement Plc has released its 2018 Dangote Cement Sustainability Report, outlining its sustainability initiatives, activities and achievements during the 2018 financial year. The report was unveiled yesterday in Lagos at the maiden edition of ‘Facts Behind the Sustainability Report’ (FBSR), an interactive forum created by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to further promote Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance and reporting among listed companies in Nigeria, in line with its newly introduced NSE Sustainability Disclosures Guidelines. Dangote Cement aims to make the culture of sustainability a business imperative through its seven-Pillar (institutional, cultural, operational and environmental, economic, social, financial) approach to Sustainability, called “The Dangote Way”. With major operations in three locations in Nigeria and across 14 African countries, the organisation is enhancing its positive impact on the economy, environment and society through an integrated approach that mainstreams sustainability across the entire business. This process includes publishing its maiden GRI-Standards compliant sustainability report. Speaking, Group managing director, Dangote Cement, Engr. Joseph Makoju said, “We have identified and are leveraging sustainability to drive regulatory compliance, proactive risk management and building trust and goodwill in the countries, markets and communities where we operate.” The chief executive officer of the NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said “Better ESG reporting is key to strengthening capital markets and achieving a sustainable global economy. “The Exchange is strategically positioned to influence the adoption of globally recognised sustainability standards by Nigerian businesses and we continue to highlight the importance of sustainable business practices in delivering value to our listed companies and investing public to support economic growth.” Onyema stated that “To consolidate our efforts of partnering listed companies to create value through reporting, we are happy to launch the NSE Facts Behind the Sustainability Report to facilitate more meaningful engagement between investors and listed companies on ESG risks and opportunities.