The Nigerian Air Force says contrary to reports,its troops did not ignore a distress call on bandit’s attack on Makwa village in Bungudu Local Government Area of Zamfara state. The Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola stated this while reacting to a report on the front page of one of the national dailies attributed to the emir of Bungudu alleging that the NAF Commander ignored distress call put across to him following bandits attack. The Director said  the report and the alleged remarks by the Emir of Bungudu are fraught with errors and inconsistencies, deliberately concocted to disparage the good name and reputation of the Service. He noted that the report is unprofessional and disingenuous and charged the medium to balance reports before releasing to the public He explained that the NAF first received information about the attack on Makwa Village from the Headquarters Operation Sharan Daji (HQ OPSD) at about 1934hrs on Saturday, 27 April 2019, even before the LGA Chairman called the NAF Commander. According to the report, “the Emir also claimed that the LGA Chairman, while supposedly alerting the NAF Commander, was allegedly told, by the Commander, that he was not supposed to have picked the Chairman’s call, “since you people have decided to disgrace us”. “the report also claimed Correspondent had contacted the NAF for a response on that specific issue after the incident,” He explained “For the avoidance of doubts, the public is to please note that the NAF first received information about the attack on Makwa Village from the Headquarters Operation Sharan Daji (HQ OPSD) at about 1934hrs on Saturday, 27 April 2019, even before the LGA Chairman called the NAF Commander.  “A Team of NAF Special Forces (SF) personnel was therefore immediately dispatched to Makwa, which is about 12Km off the road into the forest, with barely motorable tracks.  “As at the time the Bungudu LGA Chairman called, the Commander informed him, without any acrimony or recriminations, that the NAF Team was already on its way to the village. “However, by the time the SF Team arrived and surgically stormed the village, to avoid attacking innocent civilians, the bandits had already fled,”  He slammed the Newspaper for gross unprofessionalism say  it did not make any attempt whatsoever to contact the NAF on the issues relating to the incident at Makwa Village before publishing its story.  “Rather, it chose to rely on a previous interview granted to the the reporter a few days before the incident in Makwa Village,” he said  He stressed that by relying on the earlier interview, which was on a related subject but not particularly addressing the incident of 27 April 2019, the Newspaper succeeded in misrepresenting facts.  “The NAF finds it rather mischievous that anyone would spread such deliberate misinformation whilst the Service is doing its best to effectively respond to the challenges facing the good people of Zamfara State and its environs,” he said  He reassured that the NAF, being a professional Service, will remain committed to ensuring the safety and security of all Nigerians while working , in synergy with sister Services and other security agencies.  