“We Assuring Foundation For A Balanced Adulthood For The African Child” – The Netherlands The International Labour Organization (ILO), the Netherlands collaborative project targeted at accelerating actions to eliminate child labour in global supply chains in six countries in Africa, Nigeria, Malawi, Uganda, Egypt, Mali, Cote D’Ivoire has gulped €28m. Targeted at eliminating child labour in Nigeria in the mining (gold) and cocoa supply chains, located largely in Niger and Ondo states, the Accelerating Action for the Elimination of Child Labour in Supply Chain in Africa (ACCEL), the Embassy of the Netherlands says is the foundation for a balanced adulthood for child. Representing the government of the Netherlands, the financier of the long-term, four-year project, (2018 to 2022), Ambassador of the Netherland to Nigeria, Marion Kappeyne van de Coppello, notes that the choice to address child labour is the recognition of the importance of children as the future. “We think every child has the right to go to school, to be a child Children are the basis of humanity. It is about our future. To improve the world, we start with children.” Recognizing the multi-faceted nature of child labour in Nigeria, as well as social cultural of the continent, van de Coppello says she has full confidence in the success of the ILO-led project. “It is a complicated project. ILO has a good track record joining employers and employees, together, to work together. I have seen from this workshop in Nigeria, that all the stakeholders are present, there is a collaborative effort that will bring the most chance of success. The government of The Netherlands believe the project is in good hands with the ILO, which has long-standing experience in this field, and in Africa. The project will focus on the gold and cocoa sector, good sectors to start with. I have full confidence that the ILO, and ILO Nigeria, can do the work rightly,” assures the Ambassador. Addressing further media concerns of the project to address the extensive practice of child labour in the country, in only two states and in two sectors, the ILO Chief Technical Adviser, Minoru Ogasawara, emphasizes that with limited resources, the project focused on core areas to cover the extensive scope. “We are looking at legal framework, policy framework, capacity building, awareness raising, community mobilization and working with employers, workers, private sector, with different other partners in education, agriculture, mining etc. it is a comprehensive project that will answer the needs of the country, Nigeria.” Ogasawara says the project will coalesce inputs, challenges and priorities, from the recent two-day workshop for national stakeholders to adopt a generic framework that is realistic with the Nigerian context. On monitoring the project, Ogasawara says in addition to ILO provision of monitoring and evaluation support, implementation agreement will be signed with partners based on their identified needs and priorities. Further assuring effective monitoring of the project, the National Coordinator of ACCEL Africa, ILO, Agatha Kolawole states ILO will be working with the national, and the concerned states steering committees, as well as the ministries of Mines & Steel Development, Agriculture and Rural Development, working in the states, as well as with other local authorities, employers and workers associations.  