Transparency Advocacy for Development Initiative, a coalition of civil society organisation (CSOs) says President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has laid foundation for sound fiscal and financial system in the country. Mr Solomon Adodo, Convener of the coalition said this on Tuesday during a round table meeting with the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF). The meeting with the theme “Assessing the fiscal transparency measures of the Buhari-led Administration towards Public Sector Efficiency and National Productivity,” was organised by the Initiative. Adodo explained that fiscal prudence, transparency and due process are key to determining the productivity or otherwise of an organisation whether government or private. He listed the fiscal and accounting systems to include the Treasury Single Account (TSA), the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) and the creation of an Efficiency Unit under the Federal Ministry of Finance. “However, the incorruptible integrity posture and actions of Mr President has engineered key reforms and strategic policy implementations that have altered for the betterment of our funds management system. “This deft approach was a masterstroke that helped in propelling Nigeria out of recession and placing it on the path of growth within a short spate of time. “It has not escaped our notice that this astounding feat was achieved on the plinth of self-sacrifice engineered by the Accountant-General of the Federation, Alhaji Ahmed Idris. “In the light of the prime essence of fiscal transparency in public sector activities, we have deemed it imperative to assess the progress made in the formulation and implementation of policies in this respect. “A great amount of our nation’s finances have been conserved and corruption significantly curbed through the innovative financial strategies deployed by this government under the watch of the much disciplined AGF, Idris,” he said. According to Adodo, this stands at variance with what some naysayers will want Nigerians to believe. “As the administration’s new tenure is about to commence, it is of prime importance that we glean salient facts of the progress made on all fronts especially on fiscal transparency and prudence,” he said. He said the nexus between financial produce and development cum economic growth cannot be extricated. “Thus we must appraise how far we have come as a nation in this respect, the challenges and bottlenecks encountered and how we can effectively strengthen synergy for greater successes moving forward. “It is of high essence that we specify benchmarks of progress in order that we do not regress beyond the point of progress made. “All hands are motivated to be on deck towards building a more corrupt free society in the second tenure of the President. “It is in the light of the foregoing, we have therefore deemed it imperative to undertake a policy by policy analysis of the efforts put in place by the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. “This is to ensure a new order in our financial management and accounting system,”Adodo said. (NAN) 