The federal government has reiterated its commitment to addressing environmental degradation across the 36 States of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Barr. Boss Mustapha stated this at the commissioning and handing over of Police Signpost-FHA estate erosion control and road improvement works at Lugbe, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). The aim of the project, according to him, was to provide culverts and reinforce concrete drainages to properly channel waste/flood water into a safe discharging point, thereby preventing erosion and flooding within the community as well as to protect lives and properties. Mustapha said that the scope of the project also included road improvement works to ease pedestrian and vehicular access in the community. He stated that the community had experienced untold hardship due to environmental degradation, arising from flooding and erosion menace, a situation that necessitated prompt intervention from the federal government. The SGF said that the project is a testimony that no part of Nigeria would suffer any neglect due to its geographical location of political consideration. He noted that the federal government’s execution of the project is a demonstration of purpose of the President Buhari-led administration towards entrenching justice, equity and fair play. The SGF also said that the project would enhance the living standard of the people in Lugbe community and at the same time reduce dangers to lives and properties associated with erosion and persistent flooding in the past. Mustapha was optimistic that the project would provide a window of opportunities for economic growth of the community especially at a period of nation building and economic recovery. He appealed to religious, political and traditional leaders in Lugbe to take responsibility of maintaining the project for the benefits of the people in the community. On her part, the permanent secretary of Ecological Fund Office (EFO), Dr Habiba Lawal disclosed that the project was initiated through a request for an urgent intervention, that was forwarded to EFO by the Lugbe community. She hinted that the request was meant to arrest the continuous erosion and flood menance in the area likewise to avoid further environmental degradation, loss of lives and properties. Lawal asserted that the timely completion of the project was made possible through the efforts of the project Contractor, Messrs Masarki Nigeria Limited who worked tirelessly to ensure minimum loss of time in the implementation schedule, though with close monitoring and prompt honouring of all contractual obligations by the EFO. The permanent secretary observed that part of the bridge was already turned to dumpsite even as she tasked the community to ensure that the bridge is maintained to avoid blockage. Responding on behalf of the community,  Barr Salihu Momoh recalled that the community have struggled over ten years to enable the government of the federation repair the road. To this end, he emphasised that the community wrote several requests to past administrations to fix the road but they failed to intervene until God used President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) to build the project. Momoh thanked PMB, SGF and EFO for touching the lives of people at the grassroots through developmental project. The SGF also commissioned and handed over gully erosion and flood control works at the permanent site of Federal Government Boys College (FGBC), Wuye- Abuja. Mustapha stated that the project is one of the twenty three ecological intervention projects approved by PMB on the 7th September 2018, for the second quarter of the year. According to him, “ I learnt the school have not been able to move to this permanent site due to this ecological challenges, I hope that after this commissioning, the school will leave the temporary site to this place”. Having completed the project, the SGF was hopeful that the school environment would be greatly safeguarded adding that threats to lives and properties of the staffs and students would be reduced. This he believed would enhance learning, even as he commended the school authority for their cooperation during the project execution. Also speaking, the permanent secretary of EFO, Dr Habiba Lawal pleaded with the school authority to take over and exercise ownership of the project by maintaining it, adding that the resources which federal government committed to the project should not be wasted. On his part, the principal of FGBC Wuye, Mr Hussein Abdullahi recalled that the minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mallam Mohammed Bello sought the intervention of EFO to salvage the college from gully erosion. He however commended SGF for facilitating the project, which made it possible for the College to move to the permanent site.