In the several decades of oil exploration, exploitation and outrageous spills, it is easy to find individuals and contractors that claim to have expertise in pollution remediation and the processes by which that can be achieved. What is hard to find is a location that has been fully remediated and restored. The processes of hydrocarbons extraction, processing and usage are inherently polluting, sometimes violent, and require careful planning to handle those negative effects even before they happen. This is what the law, including through the environmental impact assessments, requires for all types of activities with potential to cause environmental harm. These include oil and solid minerals mining activities. Exploiters are expected to put in place management plans for handling incidents that would inevitably occur. The plans also include decommissioning and landscape restoration when the mining activity ends in the particular locations. This is so because every oil well, or mine site, has a life span and they all require proper and adequate closure actions at the end of their lifespan. The Ogoni cleanup exercise continues to generate much expectations, anxieties and doubts for a number of reasons. Basically, the heightened level of concern can be attributed to the fact that over the years, the federal government and the international oil companies have lost the trust of the people when it comes to the exploitation of the resources, remediation of the associated harms and/or the enjoyment of benefits. The questions often asked with regard to the Ogoni cleanup include why the recommendations of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) are not religiously followed, especially with regards to the provision of potable water. This is a legitimate concern and an emergency issue, seeing that the Ogonis have for decades, been condemned to drinking water contaminated with crude oil and sundry wastes. The Hydrocarbons Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) has to meet this demand and should do so expeditiously. Enquiries as to what action is being taken on this reveals that plans are on to revive existing water projects while the plans for a comprehensive water supply scheme for the entire Ogoni area continues. This clearly is one area that must be treated as an utmost emergency. On the question of the recommendations of the UNEP report not being strictly adhered to, we note that UNEP is a critical consultant in the entire exercise and sits on both the governing council and board of trustees of HYPREP. This immersion and collaboration of the UN body in the process should allay fears concerning adherence to recommendations of the report and the direction of the efforts. Secondly, there is the issue of health audit needed for the establishment of the exact cause of the rampant ill health in the area. Interestingly, UNEP had reviewed thousands of health records during the assessment of the Ogoni environment but could not come to definitive conclusions on the prevalence of particular disease and their underpinning causes due to the quality of health records. The health audit cannot be avoided and HYPREP has to attend to this with the urgency it deserves. This is a preliminary activity that would provide a collective diagnosis, so to speak, that would make for meaningful and targeted healthcare delivery for the people. Thirdly, there are concerns over the establishment of centres for examining, handling and treating contaminated soils and wastes. Indications that this is not an ignored item can be seen in the undertaking of a study tour of similar facilities elsewhere by the HYPREP Governing Council. Fourthly, citizens complain over the processes of selection of contractors for the cleanup, as well as a lack of public awareness of benchmarks and milestones of the exercise. The issues of transparency and milestones are often raised and rightly so because the people need to have basic information about the why, what, where, when and how of the exercise. The question as to whether the Ogoni cleanup has begun or not has become basically rhetorical because for all intent and purpose, the process has been long and could have been faster. However, if we understand the complexity of the task and the monumental nature of the pollution, it is easier to agree that between the declaration of intention to cleanup and the actual scooping of the first mess lies a gamut of intricately interwoven preparatory steps to be undertaken. These include socio-cultural as well as technical matters that must be resolved and some can remain beneath the radar while eating away chunks of time.