The six Chairmen of All Progressive Congress (APC) in the South South region have written to President Muhammadu Buhari, endorsing the candidacy of Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for the position of deputy senate president in the 9th assembly. According to them, the gesture will help in strengthening the party in the region even as they thanked President Buhari for “granting the region the privilege of producing the next deputy senate president of the Nigerian Senate.” The party’s Chairmen in Delta, Jones Erue; Bayelsa, Jothan Lalabunafa; Cross River, John Ochala; Akwa Ibom, Ini T. Okopido; Rivers, Ojukaye Amachree and Edo, Anslem Ojezua, signed the letter which copied the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s office. This was contained in a letter sighted by LEADERSHIP dated May 3rd and addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari dated May 3rd and made available to journalists in Abuja. “We the people of the South-South geo-political zone of the Federal Republic of Nigeria herein represented by the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairmen in the six (6) states of the South-South geo-political zone congratulate you on your victory at the presidential elections. “As we earnestly await your swearing in ceremony on the 29th of May 2019, we wish to make our humble request on the zoning arrangement for the 9th assembly. “After a careful look at the political dynamics in our geo-political zone and the zoning formulae that your emergence has bestowed on us a people, we have taken cognizance of the senators who will represent the South-South zone in the 9th Senate, both their antecedents, background and suitability for the position sought. “With a sense of responsibility, we do hereby convey to you our agreement to endorse Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for the position of deputy senate president of the 9th assembly. “Our choice has been majorly influenced (but not limited) by his loyalty to the Federal Republic of Nigeria; Your Excellency, the President and Commander in Chief; his proven capacity to support the president in the senate in executing your far-reaching programmes for the benefit of the Nigerian citizens,’’ they said. According to them, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege had in recent past made sacrifices in the course of his very robust defense of executive bills and positions. “The South-South region which we represent is not unmindful of her role in the emerging political dynamics of our dear country and the need for our great party to consolidate her presence thereto. “In conclusion, Your Excellency we wish to thank you immensely for all the support and encouragement you have offered the South-South since the beginning of this administration,’’ they said.   