Four Fulani herdsmen that sacked some communities in Imeko/Afon local government area of Ogun state and sixty seven other suspected criminals were on Wednesday paraded by the Ogun state police command over crimes ranging from murder, kidnapping and robbery. The command also paraded a 30-year old bricklayer, Tunde Olagesin who machete his father to death when the deceased insisted that his son would not go out for work the fateful day. The 66 others were arrested for various crimes ranging from armed robbery, cultism and of possession of weed substance suspected to be Indian hemp. While Tunde allegedly committed the crime at Oni-pineapple area of Ijoko-Ota in Ado-Odo/Ota local government area, the four Fulani herdsmen were rounded up during a police raid at Iwoye town in the Imeko/Afon local government area where the police Divisional Crime Officer (DCO) was shot during a gun duel between the police and the herdsmen. About 2, 000 well armed Fulani herdsmen had last week, invaded Iwoye border town and its three adjourning communities of Oke-Agbede, Moriwi and Wasinmi-Okuta in search of water for their cows numbering over 20, 000. Their invasion of these communities however, led to the death of two natives: a 28-years old Kabiru Ogunrinde and Segun Fakorede, 30. Two other hunters from the neighbouring town in the Republic of Benin were also killed, while several number of police officers attached to the Special Anti Robbery Square (SARS) also sustained varying degrees of injuries in the gun duel that later ensued. Items which included two swords, a Dane gun, knives and cutlasses as well as assorted charms were also recovered from the Fulani herdsmen. Parading the suspects, the Command’s Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama said the arrest was in furtherance of operation “Puff Adder” earlier launched by the Inspector General of Police, Adams Mohammed. Makama gave names of the Fulani herdsmen arrested as: Abubakar Umar, Momo Mohammed, Lawal Aliyu and Abubakar Muhammed. The CP also paraded 28 suspected members of secret cults who engages each other in rival operations in Sagamu where about six people were killed. Lamenting that cultism and cult relates activities have eaten deep into the society in Ogun state, the CP reiterated that the police would not relent in its efforts at sanitizing the society including advocacy among the youths. Meanwhile, items which included 20 bags of weeds suspected to be Indian hemps, several cartons of adulterated “hot drinks”, vehicle spare parts among others were also recovered from the suspects. 