The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Abayomi Olonisakin, has called for enhanced joint training of officers and personnel of the Armed Forces to improve synergy in joint operations. General Olonisakin made this assertion in his opening remarks during the maiden Defence Headquarters Training Conference 2019 at the Abacha Hall of the National Defence College, Abuja. He said the enhanced joint training is one of the critical steps in developing joint forces capability. “Over the years, the Armed Forces of Nigeria have attempted to improve our joint operations through various reorganisation efforts and other initiatives. We are yet to achieve the desired level of integration,” he said. According to him, the approach to training is at variance with the desire to have a truly integrated joint operation. He, therefore, charged participants at the conference to focus deliberations  on reviewing training approaches, doctrines and effectiveness of joint operations. He explained that, historically, the Armed Forces have mostly conducted single service operations with varying levels of support from sister Services. He, however, noted that the security challenges facing the nation had necessitated joint or combined efforts. He stated that, in the last few years, the Armed Forces had launched several joint operations, some of which are currently ongoing, including; Operation Whirl Stroke, Operation Whirl Punch, Operation Delta Safe, Operation Save Haven and  Operation Sharan Daji. “Although these operations have been largely successful, we are yet to achieve the desired levels of joint force integration that will ensure our joint operations are seamless,” he said. He noted that from the entry point of an officer at the Nigerian Defence Academy, through mid-career training at the Armed Forces Command and Staff College and the National Defence College, the Armed Force had strived for joint operations. “Regrettably, the emphases on joint training in these institutions have not translated to the desired level in the conduct of our joint operations,” he said.