To strengthen Nigeria’s electoral system, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is reviewing the recommendations of six electoral reform committees’ reports. The exercise which comes 32 years after the first report was submitted followed the fallouts of the 2019 general elections. INEC said that the review of the committee’s report will commence with that of the Babalakin Commission of Inquiry into the affairs of the Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO) in 1986, the Uwais report on electoral reform (2008), the Lemu Committee on post-election violence (2011), and the Ken Nnamani Committee on constitutional and electoral reform report (2017). At his first meeting in Abuja yesterday with the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) resident electoral commissioners (RECs) after the 2019 general elections, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said that the process needs to be completed urgently. INEC hopes that the recommendations arising from the national conversation would lead to an enduring reform of the electoral system. Yakubu said: “For it to be robust, we also need to take into consideration the reports of previous committees on electoral reforms,” before the meeting went into closed door session. According to him, “over the last 40 years, virtually all our elections have been accompanied by the report of one committee or another on electoral reforms. Among them were the Babalakin Commission of Inquiry into the affairs of the Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO in 1986), the Uwais report on electoral reforms (2008), the Lemu Committee on post-election violence (2011), the Ken Nnamani Committee on constitutional and electoral reform (2017), the various administrative reports by INEC, investigation reports by the security agencies (the Nigeria Police and the Nigerian Army), the independent studies by the National Human Right Commission (2015 and 2017), the judgements of the various election petition tribunals, the reports of domestic and international observers, record of public hearing for the amendment of the electoral framework by the National Assembly and even confessional statements by some political actors. There is value in revisiting all these reports.” To achieve the goal, INEC said that it would work with stakeholders for a comprehensive review of the reports in earnest. While calling for concerted efforts to achieve a sound system for a smooth electoral process, Yakubu said that INEC intends to structure the conversation around critical issues that affected the preparations for the 2019 general elections, especially the critical materials, staging posts such as the RACs and super RACs, storage facilities, the collation and declaration centres.  “Others are voter registration and collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs),  communication issues: voter education and publicity;  political parties: number, mode of registration, internal democracy, accreditation of party agents, recruitment, training and deployment of election personnel; logistics: movement and security of personnel and materials, adding that ICT-related issues ranging from the configuration and deployment of technology, including the recruitment, training and deployment of technical support, will also be examined. “We also need an informed conversion on the use of technology to deepen the electoral process.  procurement and deployment of sensitive and non-sensitive materials, election day processes, including polling unit administration, accreditation of voters, voting procedure and result management, particularly the collation and transmission of results,” Yakubu said. Others are reverse logistics for personnel and materials, including audit of materials used as well as the storage and retrieval of election statistics; election security focusing on the relationship between INEC and the security agencies; the effectiveness and impact of election risk assessment methods; deployment and conduct of security personnel; the electoral legal framework and the necessity for a comprehensive, dispassionate and early conclusion as well as the passage of any constitutional and electoral act amendments as part of the reforms.  Yakubu said that the extensive responsibilities of INEC, which has become not just an election management body but a manager of the democratic process in general, leaves the commission with little time to plan for elections and simultaneously and effectively address other extensive and more complex responsibilities such as constituency delimitation and prosecution of electoral offenders. “The commission now conducts elections all-year round (court-ordered rerun elections, bye-elections and seven off-season governorship elections); inclusivity issues involving the participation of women, youths and persons living with disabilities in elective offices in particular and the electoral process in general, the plethora of election observers, their accreditation, responsibilities and behaviours during and after elections will be reconsider,” he said. Yakubu who said elections are not only becoming increasingly expensive with increased number of voters, personnel and materials requiring huge logistics and deployment of new technology, added that Nigeria needs a deep conversation around the cost of elections.  …Dismisses200 Staff Meanwhile, the Oyo State resident electoral commissioner (REC), Mr. Mutiu Agboke, has hinted that over 200 staff of INEC have been sacked for various electoral offences in the state. Agboke who admitted that there were problems during the last general elections in the state, declared that majority of them were orchestrated by politicians. Agboke spoke yesterday at a symposium organised by the Lanre Oladoyinbo-led executive of the University of Ibadan Senior Staff Club titled: “2019 elections: A post mortem”, insisted that INEC performed well in the election. According to him, no fewer than 200 staff of the commission were dismissed for various electoral offences. The REC, who spoke alongside Professors Francis Eghokhare, Segun Ajiboye, Bayo Okunade, and Dr Aremu, disclosed that INEC was ready to defend the results of the 2019 elections in the state in court. He said that there were 32 election petitions comprising one for governorship, four for senatorial election, 12 House of Representatives and 15 house of assembly from the elections. Agboke who claimed a few of the political actors approached him with “big money”, however, noted that only a foolish INEC staff will be hobnobbing, visiting and running after politicians. In his contribution, Bayo Okunade, a professor of Political Science, reiterated the need to unbundle INEC and relieve it of the many roles it plays to enhance its performance in line with the Uwais report. Okunade maintained that there was nothing wrong with the infractions which occurred during the polls, stressing they were not features of political contestations. The registrar/chief executive, Teachers’ Registration Council, Segun Ajiboye, said that progress had been made in Nigeria’s conduct of elections and called for a review of the participation of university staff as ad-hoc staff in future elections.