The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have proudly showed off their baby son to the world for the first time today as his beaming parents finally showed off their ‘own little bundle of joy’ to millions of royal fans across the globe. Baby Sussex made his very first public appearance at a photocall alongside a thrilled Prince Harry and Meghan in the grounds of Windsor Castle, where the new family have been holed up since the historic birth on Monday.  The couple answered several questions before leaving the hall as they prepared to introduce the infant to the Queen this afternoon, where they are expected to inform the monarch of her great-grandson’s name before telling the rest of the world. The two-day-old infant was lovingly cradled by his adoring father and watched attentively by Meghan, who was herself pictured for the first time in six weeks since withdrawing from public life ahead of the birth. The couple appeared to be beside themselves with joy, giggling and looking into each other’s eyes as they spoke, while Harry could not resist sneaking a peek down at his son as he apparently slept. Speaking for only three minutes from inside the majestic St George’s Hall at Windsor Castle, a radiant Meghan declared: ‘It’s magic, it’s pretty amazing. He’s just been the dream so it’s been a special couple of days. ‘I have the two best guys in the world so I’m really happy. He has the sweetest temperament, he’s really calm.’  The duke and duchess risked causing a row between rival media outlets after they insisted on a US broadcaster being present – choosing to include the channel fronted by one of Meghan’s best friends, Gayle King. By coincidence – or not – CBS’s morning show is hosted by Meghan’s friend Miss King, who was one of just 20 people to attend her lavish five-day baby shower in New York, leading to suggestions of favouritism. While the Queen was expected to be the first senior royal to officially meet the newborn, a giddy Meghan revealed how they accidentally bumped into the Duke of Edinburgh in the grounds of Windsor Castle while making their way to the photocall.She said: ‘We just bumped into the duke as we were walking by which was so nice. So it’ll be a nice moment to introduce the baby to more family and my mum’s with us as well.’ Asked who the baby takes after, Meghan added: ‘We’re still trying to figure that out.’Harry said: ‘Everyone says that babies change so much over two weeks we’re basically monitoring how the changing process happens over this next month really. But his looks are changing every single day, so who knows.’ Asked how he found parenting, Harry added: ‘It’s great. Parenting is amazing. ‘It’s only been two and a half days, three days, but we’re just so thrilled to have our own little bundle of joy.’ Harry said they were looking forward to spending some ‘precious times with him as he slowly, slowly starts to grow up.’ Later, asked to show more of their son’s face to the cameras, Meghan laughed as Harry joked: ‘He’s already got a little bit of facial hair as well, wonderful.’ Meghan added: ‘Thank you everybody for all the well wishes and kindness, it just means so much.’ The baby, whose name has not yet been announced, is seventh in line to the throne and the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh’s eighth great-grandchild and the Prince of Wales’s fourth grandchild. Shortly after the first photographs surfaced worldwide, royal fans went into meltdown as they declared that the baby looks ‘just like Momma’. Others were quick to point out ‘beautiful’ Meghan looked post-birth, after the duchess was pictured for the first time in six weeks after going on maternity leave from public appearances. In what was seen as a break from recent royal procedure, the photocall took place two days after the birth near Frogmore Cottage, where Meghan has been recovering since Monday alongside her mother Doria Ragland.While the Duchess of Cambridge faced the media outside the Lindo Wing of St Mary’s Hospital a few hours after all three of their children were born, American-born Meghan is said to have considered the idea as archaic. Baby Sussex arrived at 5.26am on Monday, weighing 7lb 3oz, and is thought to have been born at the Portland Hospital in London, a plush US-owned hospital favoured by many wealthy American expats. Meghan – who had been more than a week overdue – is believed to have gone into labour late on Sunday, when she was driven 28 miles away to a London hospital, ending her hopes of a home birth. It comes after Harry and Meghan, 37, insisted that a US broadcaster be present during the unveiling of their baby son, choosing a channel fronted by one of Meghan’s best friends. The couple arranged for CBS, the network whose morning show is fronted by the duchess’s confidante Gayle King – a guest at her New York baby shower – to join a small British media contingent for the photocall. Miss King was with the couple at their private residence of Frogmore Cottage at the weekend, having arrived in the UK to film what she called a ‘royal special’. The show, Meghan and Harry Plus One, is set to air on CBS on May 17, and will feature chats from royal insiders and Meghan’s friends to mark the one-year anniversary of the royal marriage and the birth of their first child. It is thought the 64-year-old journalist returned to the US before Meghan was admitted to hospital in the early hours of Monday to give birth. The decision to include a US broadcaster came as a surprise to British television channels including the BBC and ITV – not to mention many at Buckingham Palace. Their inclusion caused a storm among rival media outlets with the Queen’s former press secretary Dickie Arbiter, who comments on royal matters for a host of networks including the BBC, ITV, and Sky, warning it is ‘treading on dodgy ground’. Mr Arbiter said the stated reason – that the inclusion of CBS in the pool means the pictures will make US breakfast shows – was a ‘fatuous excuse’ because syndication deals would have ensured US coverage without the CBS presence. He alluded to Meghan’s close ties to King saying ‘choosing a US network, fiend [sic] or not, is treading on dodgy ground’. Despite CBS’s attendance, a royal source said it would not receive any exclusive content from the photocall and would be expected to share all of its material. But the American network’s involvement in such a high-profile event usually reserved for British media representatives will still be viewed as a huge scoop stateside. Last night a palace aide said: ‘There is an international cameraman accredited to the pool facility tomorrow. CBS will provide the cameraman. ‘This reflects the international interest in the story. The international camera spot was self-selected and the pictures will be available for pool use.’ 