President Muhammadu Buhari has again given marching orders to the security chiefs against the rising security challenges in the country. He said that henceforth, the security chiefs must ensure that Nigerians go to bed with their two eyes closed. Buhari’s fresh mandate was disclosed yesterday in Abuja to State House correspondents by the chief of naval staff, Rear Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas, after a meeting the security chiefs had with the President. He said that the meeting was to apprise the president of the security situation after his short vacation abroad. The naval chief said that the security agencies briefed the president on what had happened with emphasis on the proliferation of small arms and what the various agencies were doing to curtail the situation. Ibas said: “He (President) has also given directives that the agencies should do more to ensure that Nigerians go to bed and wake up feeling healthy and confident that their security is guaranteed.” He stated that there had been a remarkable drop in the number of kidnappings, adding that the security situation in the country had also improved. According to him, “you will recall during the last meeting, the inspector-general (IG) was directed to ensure the safety of the citizens and consequently, various operations were set up; ‘Puff Adder’ was one of the strategies. With the setting up of that operations, there have been a remarkable drop in the number of kidnappings. “What normally would attract attention is when a key person in government perhaps is kidnapped. On the whole, the number of kidnappings has dropped and generally I think the security situation is improving,” Ibas said. On the abducted district head of Daura, the naval boss said that “serious efforts are being made, key suspects have been arrested and it is hoped that in a short while, those behind the heinous crime will be brought to book.” The meeting was attended by the minister for Defence, Alhaji Dan Ali, chief of defence staff, Gen Abayomi Olonishakin, chief of army staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, chief of naval staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas, chief of policy and plan, Nigerian Air Force, Air Vice Marshal Emmanuel Achebi, and the inspector-general of police (IGP),  Mr Mohammed Adamu. Others were the national security adviser (NSA), Alhaji Babagana Monguno, the director-general (DG) of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi, the DG of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Alhaji Rufai Abubakar, and the chief of defence intelligence, Air Vice Marshal Muhammadu Saliu Usman.