Tension between India and Pakistan are flaring once again over Kashmir, raising global anxiety about the risk of conflict between the two nuclear-armed rivals. The Himalayan region has been the focus of a bitter dispute dating back decades. Analysts have warned that in responding to the current crisis, the United States must balance its competing interests in the region. The latest flare-up started with a suicide bombing by a group called Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM), a UN- and US-designated terrorist group. At least 40 Indian paramilitary forces in India-controlled Kashmir were killed in the attack. India responded with air strikes targeting one of JeM’s camps just outside the Kashmir region, in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province. Islamabad then launched retaliatory strikes on targets inside India’s Kashmir, though it said it avoided targeting personnel. In the course of the assault, Pakistan shot down at least one Indian jet over its territory and captured the pilot. In what Prime Minister Imran Khan called a “peace gesture,” Pakistan later released the pilot. To Pakistan’s media and political analysts, Modi’s true intentions were plain and clear since February 14th, that Modi was intentionally trying to politicise the Pulwama attack to win the elections in May, 2019 through an all-time feasible tactic of framing Pakistan into every terrorist act inside India. Eventually, Modi succeeded by securing a landslide victory in the elections. To Pakistan, it was “not pre-emptive but pre-election.” As far as Kashmiris are concerned, Indian media are said to be doing a significant job since 2001 to frame every effort of the Kashmiri freedom fighters as “acts of terrorism assisted by Pakistan”. Pundits are of the opinion that same scenario can be easily assessed in respect of the context of Pulwama attack. In addition to that, no mainstream media and defence analyst in Pakistan was expecting that India would dare to come inside Pakistan for a surgical strike. Meanwhile, in the early morning of February 26th, India Air Force reportedly violated the UN article 34 and 35, and intervened in Pakistan’s airspace. India claimed that it had conducted airstrike on terrorist camps in Balakot, Pakistan and killed 300 terrorists. The Indian Air Force was said to have violated the LoC for the first time since 1971; Pakistan, in response, proved that only a few trees were destroyed and no infrastructure was damaged nor were people killed. Pakistan asked India to show proofs on their claim of numerous terrorists being killed. The Indian Air Chief Marshal, Birender Singh Dhanoa, in a statement said; “We don’t count human casualties. We count what targets we have hit or not hit.” India was not able to provide any detail of such number of causalities, which means India, was only doing an “information war coup” against Pakistan. At the same time, on the other side in Pakistan, with the Indian Air Force intervention, the morale of the whole Pakistani nation went down and serious questions were being raised on the effectiveness of Pakistan Air Force (PAF) defence capability. The first two government officials to address the nation after the Indian violation of LoC were Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and the spokesman of Pakistan Army, Major General Asif Ghafoor, who said it plain and clear that, “India had violated our airspace and Pakistan has the right to retaliate and will surely give a reply to India.” It is on record that India and Pakistan have been bitter rivals since they emerged from British colonial rule in 1947. Pakistan views Kashmir, which has a Muslim majority, as a natural part of its state. For secular but Hindu-majority India, Kashmir is vital to its identity as a multiethnic state. Over the last seven decades, their competing claims for the mountainous territory have helped fuel three wars and periodic bouts of violence. The last major conflict came in 1999, triggered by alleged Pakistani militants taking up fortified positions in India’s section of Kashmir. The ensuing skirmish, known as the Kargil War, lasted two months and claimed more than a thousand casualties on each side. The episode was particularly worrisome around the world because both countries had tested nuclear weapons the previous year. The United States eventually leaned hard on Pakistan and compelled Islamabad to withdraw its troops and de-escalate the crisis. The United States’ position has been that “the pace, scope, and character” of discussions about Kashmir should be determined by India and Pakistan. At the same time, Washington has been warned to maintain a delicate balance of interests and relationships in the region. On one hand, Pakistan is a longstanding United States ally, although ties have been rocky at the best of times. The United States needs to work with Pakistan as the US military withdraws from Afghanistan. It also wants Islamabad to step up its counterterrorism efforts. Across administrations, the United States has repeatedly criticised Pakistan for not doing enough to stop terrorist groups such as JeM from operating within its borders, and it suspended security assistance to the country in 2018. On the other hand, the United States continues to strengthen ties with India, a rising power and one that largely shares Washington’s emphasis on a rules-based international order. India and the United States both seek a balance of power in Asia, not a region dominated by China. Since 2016, India has been a major defence partner of the United States, and a strategic partnership between the two countries established in 2005 includes joint military exercises, significant bilateral trade, and extensive people-to-people ties. President Donald J Trump and members of his administration have indicated they might stray from their typically hands-off approach to Kashmir. Recently, Trump said he was, “trying to help them both out and see if we can get some organisation and some peace,” and he suggested de-escalation was possible. Additionally, US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, spoke with both countries’ leaders and said the United States was “working hard” to help ease tensions. Climate scientists have modelled how an exchange of nuclear weapons between the two countries – what is technically called a limited regional nuclear war – might affect the world. Though the explosions would be local, the ramifications would be global, that research concluded. The ozone layer could be crippled and Earth’s climate may cool for years, triggering crop and fishery losses that would result in what the researchers call a “global nuclear famine.”