Political associates and management staff of LEADERSHIP Group Ltd have unanimously described the chairman of the newspaper group, Sam Nda-Isaiah, as a completely detribalised Nigerian. They made this observation during the publisher’s 57th  birthday celebration at his residence in Abuja yesterday. They also spoke about his industry, pursuit of excellence, mentoring of others and his compassionate heart in reaching out to those in need. Setting the pace for the event, a director LEADERSHIP Group, Pastor Abraham Nda-Isaiah, prayed for good health, blessing and God’s favour on him. He said it was imperative to celebrate a ‘’dynamic and straight forward personality with Big Ideas’’. In his speech, the group managing director, LEADERSHIP Holdings, Abdul Gombe, described the Chairman as a man of great character and personality. “Chairman’s loyalty to friends is unwavering. He has great passion for his family and concern for others,’’ he said. Gombe noted that only few people have these three attributes, and that is why Nda-Isaiah’s life’s trajectory has been continuously  on the upward curve. He thanked the Chairman for the opportunity he gave to the members of staff to work with him and develop themselves in journalism and other areas of human endeavour. In his goodwill message, the group executive director, Special Duties, LEADERSHIP Group, Christian Ochiama, remarked that Nda-Isaiah focuses on productivity and not the ethnic background of his staff. ‘’Chairman is a large-hearted Nigerian who is ready to accommodate people of all cultures and religions,” he said, adding that in another country devoid of Nigeria’s peculiarities,  Nda-Isaiah would be president. Also speaking, the group managing director, LEADERSHIP Newspapers, Nduka Nwosu, described the newspaper as a work in progress, and pledged that the present management was keen to take the newspaper to greater heights. ‘’Chairman always tells you to take charge, and I am assuring you that we will move the publication to the next level,’’ he stated. Also, the former managing director, Daily Trust Newspaper, Isiaq Ajibola, in his goodwill message said that he saw a very big victory for the paper, and urged the management to brace up to surmount any challenges that may come. He added that when Daily Trust started, the foundation staff  had two to three years’ working experience. The celebrant, Nda-Isaiah, in his response, noted that journalism was a serious profession, in fact the only profession mentioned  in the nation’s constitution. He, therefore, urged media practitioners to be serious with it. He stated that it makes him happy to see those who underwent  tutelage in LEADERSHIP achieving something good with their life. ‘’After leaving LEADERSHIP, most of my staff are bigger because of the experience gained, and that gives me joy,’’ he said. He encouraged those present to start a venture however small and not wait until they have huge resource outlay. He related his experience in 2003 when he started LEADERSHIP with less that N1 million, against the belief of  most people who are of the view that one has to be rich to own a media house. He added that he was overwhelmed and humbled by the kind words showered on him. Nigerian-born classical /opera singer, songwriter, poet, actress, screenwriter and philanthropist based in the United States, Abiodun Koya, lit up the event with a performance of her song,  “Lift up Nigeria.’’   