Unveiling its new office in Lagos, the Investment and Securities Tribunal (IST), yesterday restated its commitment in promoting investors’ confidence in the Nigerian Capital market. Seaking at the event, the chairman/CEO of IST, Isiaka Idoko said that it was necessary to relocate as there was need to create a conducive platform for the ventilation of grievances by litigants as well as affording potential litigants a closer justice. Idoko  said that IST was created for the resolution of dispute arising from investments and securities transactions, saying that “It is  in this realisation of the essence of a legal regime that would endanger investors’ confidence, that the idea for the reform of the Nigerian capital market which ultimately midwife the birth of the Investment and Securities Tribunal was muted.” He however reaffirms the commitment of the institution in carrying out its duties as matters are resolve in flexible, cost effective, transparent and efficient manner and that it remains key to its main purpose of existence. He  urged for a collective work frame to push the work further saying “We look forward to having a customised state of the art courthouse in time to come, it is hoped that this courthouse will meet the expectations of litigants and other users alike. “With our collective efforts it is hoped that the dream of making our capital market, the hub of Africa will be fulfilled sooner than later.” The minister of Finance, Hajia Zainab Ahmed commended the Tribunal for the infrastructure put in place. She stated that capital market is important to the growth of the economy, saying that IST’s importance to restoring the confidence of capital market operators and the public in the country’s capital markets is essential. The CEO, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Oscar Onyema who was represented by the head, Shared Services Division, Bola Adeeko  commended the Investment and Securities Tribunal (IST)  of its service to the capital market and the nation at large. He noted that the IST is an independent specialised judicial body  and is vested with the responsibility of interpreting the Investment and Securities Act (ISA) 2007 and adjudicating disputes and controversies in all capital market transactions.