Operatives of the Nigeria Police Force have killed a suspected kidnapping kingpin and notorious armed robber, who recently masterminded the kidnap of the UBEC chairman along Abuja- Kaduna road. Force PRO, Frank Mba said “the suspect, one Sumaila Sule, alias Shaho, male (estimated be in his mid thirties), a native of Rijana village in Kachia LGA of Kaduna state is one of the most vicious and most wanted kidnappers that has been terrorizing citizens in Kaduna and its environs. He died in the early hours of 18th May, 2019 following multiple bullet wounds he sustained during a deadly shootout with police operatives attached to operation Puff Adder. “The shootout took place in the evening of 17th May 2019, at the outskirts of Rijana village. The police operatives, in line with the mandate of operation Puff Adder, were carrying out routine surveillance and raid of suspected criminal hide-outs, when they suddenly came under gun fire attack from a heavily armed criminal gang. The police team fought back gallantly, repelling the attack and eventually bringing Shaho down, whilst his gang members fled. Shaho was rushed to hospital, where he eventually died the next day.” Mba also explained that acting on information elicited from the suspect before his death, police operatives, between the 18th and 19th of May 2019, carried out sweeping follow-up operations at different target locations. These coordinated operations led to the arrest of four other members of Shaho’s gang and the recovery of three AK 47 rifles. The arrested gang members include:  Musa Hassan 26 years,  Yau Umar 25 years, Umar Musa, 22 years and Muhammad Sani 28 years , all males and natives of Rijiana village, Kachia LGA Kaduna state. Mba explained Shaho and his gang members have been on the radar of the intelligence community for a while, as they have been implicated in several high level kidnappings and other heinous crimes along Kaduna-Abuja road and beyond. In a similar vein, a combined team of operation Puff Adder operatives, comprising of the IGP Response Team, the Technical Intelligence Unit, the Police Mobile Force and the Special Anti Robbery Squad have arrested another set of kidnappers who have been terrorizing citizens at Mubi axis of Adamawa state. One AK 47 rifle and 26 rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the gang. The suspects arrested are: Umaru Ibrahim  native of Yadi Buni, Yobe State ; Abdul Maina native of Maiha Adamawa State and Mohammed Abubakar native of Buni Yadi Yobe State. The suspects have all confessed to participating in numerous kidnapping and armed robbery operations within Adamawa state, including the kidnap and collection of a ransom of seven million naira from one Mallam Abdulahi Umoru of Hong L.G.A. Investigations into these cases are on-going, while efforts aimed at arresting other members of the gangs still at large are being intensified.