Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola on Wednesday said his administration will begin the implementation of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) this month to facilitate accessible and beneficial healthcare to the people. According to him, the government will begin to release its counterpart funding by the end of May. He commended the workers for being supportive to the policies, actions and programmes of his administration by being committed, dedicated and patriotic. The Governor revealed this on Wednesday at the 2019 Workers’ Day Celebration, the first since the inception of his administration, at the Osogbo City Stadium. Oyetola was represented by Deputy Governor Benedict Alabi, who was supported by other top government functionaries including Secretary to the State Government, Pince Wole Oyebamiji; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Charles Akinola and Head of Service Dr. Olowogboyega Oyebade among other eminent personalities. Osun NLC Chairman, Jacob Adekomi, TUC Chairman, Adebowale Adekola; Chairman Joint Negotiation Council, Bayo Adejumo and other labour leaders were also at the ceremony. The Governor noted that the workers in the state had displayed competence and pulled their weight as the genuine engine room of the government. ‎Oyetola pledged his administration’s commitment to improved welfare for all categories of workers in the state. He said his administration had been working assiduously to ensure equitable distribution of resources and services to achieve sustainable and competitive development. ‎Chairman, Osun NLC, Comrade Adekomi, lauded the state government for prioritising the welfare of its workers. Adekomi hailed Governor Oyetola for sustaining the full payment of salaries and pensions to all categories of active and passive workers since assumption of office. ‎He appealed to the state government not to relent in its effort at building a virile, wealthy and healthy workforce that will be a pride to all. He said, “We appreciate the effort of the present administration in continuous payment of full salary to all and sundry in the state civil service. ” ‎We shall always be grateful to our governor having listening ears to our yearning as we look forward for a crisis free tenure”, Adekomi said. 