The battle for the  leadership of 9th National Assembly took a surprising turn yesterday as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) interrogated the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Ataba  Sani-Omolori, on issues related to the financial records of the Assembly as well as the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly. Impeccable sources at the National Assembly told LEADERSHIP that Omolori was invited to the headquarters of the EFCC on Tuesday and interrogated for six hours, from 11am to 5pm. Omolori, who was made to write answers to questions asked by the commission on the financial records of the National Assembly, was asked further questions on issues surrounding National Assembly inauguration. Specifically, EFCC interrogator asked Omolori  to reveal whether he would apply the Senate Rule of secret balloting or open balloting in the conduct of the election of the presiding officers of the 9th National Assembly. LEADERSHIP learnt that the manner of the interaction suggested that the commission’s interrogator wanted a situation in which Omolori is coerced into adopting the open balloting method for the conduct of the 9th NASS leadership election. When contacted, authorities at the EFCC confirmed Omolori’s interrogation. The EFCC source however said he would not want his name mentioned because he was not authorized to speak on the matter. The crucial moment in Omolori’s stay at the EFCC was the seizing of his international passport. It was also learnt that other key officials of the National Assembly including the Clerk of the Senate, Clerk of the House of Representatives and their deputies would be invited to the commission today. Before Omolori’s invitation, the former Clerk to the National Assembly, Salisu Abubakar Maikasuwa, was equally quizzed. A National Assembly source hinted that Maikasuwa was quizzed shortly before Omolori got to the EFCC office and the two met there. All attempt to get Omolori to confirm the EFCC interrogation failed as he was said to be holding National Assembly management meetings.