The Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) has debunked insinuations that it was abdicating its core responsibilities by collaborating with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Nigerian Incentive Risk System and Agricultural Lending, NIRSAL, to establish a microfinance bank. NIPOST made this clarification in a statement signed by its general manager, Corporate Communications, Mr. Franklyn Alao, and made available to LEADERSHIP. It said that it has not shirked its responsibility, but reiterated its commitment to continue to provide effective and reliable postal services to its esteemed customers in accordance with its operational statutory mandate, which it said has become imperative in order to bridge the divergent needs of the modern customer. Alao said, “The notion that NIPOST is abdicating its core mandate to operate microfinance bank as alleged in some quarters is misleading. For the avoidance of doubt, the management of NIPOST wishes to set the records straight.” In the statement, he  stated that the microfinance bank in question “is an initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria, in collaboration with the Bankers’ Committee and NIRSAL.” He disclosed that the bank was not going to be managed by NIPOST or owners institutions and neither would they be involved in its day to day management, adding that the bank would however be managed by an independent management with no relation with NIPOST’s operations. He added that the use of NIPOST outlets across the country for the bank’s takeoff did not mean NIPOST has abandoned its core mandate. He said, the objective of the collaboration between CBN, Banker’s Committee, NIPOST and NISRAL was to bridge the intervention gap which conventional banks have failed to fill despite the huge sums of money channeled through them. “NIPOST is therefore not floating a bank nor abdicating its core mandate.  The microfinance banks created through this collaboration will be accommodated in the post offices providing services to the people, while NIPOST render its own postal business.” Alao said that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government deserves commendation for recognising that NIPOST is one of the government institutions that is closer to the people and that using postal outlets would not only serve its intervention to support the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises, (SMEs), but also contribute to poverty alleviation and reduce unemployment. “It is noteworthy that rather than abdicating its responsibilities, NIPOST is leveraging on ICT to introduce innovative and game changing services tailored to the needs of its customers in line with international best practices, which are also in tandem with Universal Postal Union, UPU, guidelines.” He added that these services include agency banking, e-commerce, Digital Addressing System, (DAS) and Address Verifications System, (VAS) which are real-time address location solutions in Nigeria. He noted that apart from mail and parcel, financial service has also been a core mandate of NIPOST right from its inception, adding that postal order and money order used to be the only means of remitting money before the emergence of modern technology which now make things even much easier through electronic means.