The United Nations Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development has advocated for new innovative partnerships and business models to expand broadband networks for digital transformation. The Commission made declaration after holding its 2019 Spring Meeting in Menlo Park, United States of America, 28-29 April, hosted by Facebook under the theme “Shaping the future of broadband for sustainable development”. The Broadband Commissioners- representing the broadband industry, governments, academia and United Nations agencies – reviewed the important work underway and the progress achieved by the Commission’s Working Groups and discussed future trends and developments now that more than half of the global population is online. They discussed how collaborative approaches could contribute to faster digital transformation and how investment strategies and people-centred approaches enable people to get and remain online in an informed, inclusive, secured and sustainable manner. The Commissioners also examined the use of innovative partnerships and business models to assist the expansion of broadband networks and foster secured uptake and the development of digital skills in remote and rural areas to ensure widespread access to the benefits of broadband. President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and Co-Chair of the Commission said, “There is no valid reason to constrain basic freedoms or limit access to broadband. We simply need the means to enforce our laws and hold individuals accountable for what they do online, just as we do offline.” Houlin Zhao, ITU Secretary-General said “Creating an attractive environment for investment in digital infrastructure must be one of our top priorities in order to achieve our goal of connecting the remaining half of the global population. Future networks like 5G and other emerging technologies are set to play a pivotal role in the digital economy. Our task is to ensure that they can benefit everyone, everywhere.”  Mr. Carlos Slim, Co-Chair of the Commission emphasized the need to have “a regulatory framework that encourages competition and innovation, generates investment and benefits consumers. It should have stable conditions to give confidence and certainty for investment. Penetration, connectivity and convergence should be promoted.