 The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has faulted the Christians Association of Nigeria’s stand on the release of Zaynab Aliyu by the Saudi Arabia government and the continued detention of Leah Sharibu by Boko Haram insurgents.  The director of MURIC, Prof. Ishaq Akintola in a statement on Friday, said the leadership of CAN got it wrong, insisting that there was no basis for comparing the two.  It argued that Leah Sharibu was a completely innocent Nigerian citizen who was criminally abducted by terrorists while Zaynab Aliyu was, until recently, a drug suspect apprehended by the security agencies of another sovereign country acting under the laws of their land.  According to MURIC, what was needed to set Leah free is totally different from what was required to secure Zaynab’s freedom.  The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) had compared Zaynab Aliyu who was released by the Saudi Arabia authorities to Leah Sharibu who is still in Boko Haram captivity.  Zaynab was arrested in Saudi Arabia after illicit drugs were found in her luggage. CAN had used the comparison to demand equal treatment of citizens in captivity by the Federal Government.  For MURIC, “It is like comparing the case of a kidnapped person to that of another who is in police detention. You cannot compare civilized authority to the rule of hoodlums. The law was allowed to take its course in Zaynab’s case whereas an entirely different scenario is playing out in Leah’s matter because terrorists recognize no national or international law.  “It is therefore most uncharitable for CAN to ignore these facts. It would have been a different thing entirely if FG had intervened in Zaynab’s case even before the exposure of the drug-planting cartel at the Nigerian airport. Again, it would also have been criminal abdication of responsibility if FG had failed to intervene after the new evidence emerged.  “CAN’s question, ‘Are all Nigerians equal or some are more equal than others?’ is therefore uncalled for unless CAN can convince us that kidnappers who forcefully abduct innocent people are equal to policemen who detain suspects for what they believe is illegal or judges who send criminals to jail. CAN’s question is not semantics. It is mischief pure and simple. CAN should stop playing on the emotion of gullible Nigerians”, it said.  MURIC said CAN should at least appreciate federal government’s worries and concerns about Leah Sharibu’s safety and its open and subterranean maneuvers to liberate her.  “We have no doubt that the leadership of CAN is not unaware of the intricate issues involved plus a thousand and one raison d’etre why government cannot reveal everything it is doing to secure the innocent girl’s freedom”, it added.  MURIC commended federal government for promptly intervening in the case of Zaynab Aliyu, appreciated the efforts made so far to secure Leah Sharibu’s freedom.  It urged government to do more in this regard, saying “everyday spent by Leah in the terrorist’s den is another day in the diary of Nigeria’s tragedies”.  It called on the government to spread its dragnet to all airports within the country with the hope that the drug-planting cartel are likely to exist in other airports as well, adding that those caught should be dealt with decisively to serve as deterrent to others.