The federal government has disclosed that the country was expected to earn a minimum of N6billion from the concession 19 silos over the period of 10 years. The minister of agriculture and rural development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, made this known yesterday during the handover  ceremony of the concessioned silos to successful Concessionaires in Abuja. LEADERSHIP recalls that the process to concession of the silos complexes was initiated in August 2013, by the ministry in a bid to ensure efficient operation and maximum utilisation of silos. Ogbeh said the concessionaires would provide performance bonds as collateral, and a guarantee against non-performance, whilst the ministry retains the contractual rights to terminate for non-performance. LEADERSHIP reports that the 19 silo complexes are in Adc-Ekiti, Akure, Bauchi, Ogoja, Ikenne, Jos, Gaya, Sokoto, Gombe, Makurdi, Ibadan, Ezillo, Bulasa, Kaduna, Kwali, Jahun, Lafiagi. Igbarian and Uyo. The minister, who explained that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved 20 of the 33 silo complexes to be concessioned after negotiations with preferred bidders, said six would be retained by the ministry for price stabilisation, others for the management of the national food reserves stocks, while eight would be concessioned at a later date. While noting that the silo complexes would further create jobs, stimulate production, operate profitably, create wealth for the farmers who would get a ready market for their produce, he said it would strengthen the growth of the futures market and the application of other financial derivatives, as well as increase export potentials. Speaking further on the benefit of the concession, the chairman, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Abdullahi Adamu, charged the concessionaires to use the silos for the purpose it was concessioned for. He also expressed optimism that the concessioned silos would attain its objectives. Also speaking, the minister of State for Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, expressed hope that the concession of the silos would guarantee and secure safe food for Nigerians. Lokpobiri, who was represented by the permanent secretary of the ministry, Dr Mohammed Bello Umar, urged the private sector to continue to collaborate with government so as to achieve food security.