The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has revealed that Nigeria has witnessed a growth in its domain name trend of .gov.ng and .mil.ng in Nigeria in recent times, saying the nation’s current registered domain platform currently stands at 138, 060. This was made known by the director- general of NITDA, Dr Isah Ibrahim, at the .gov.ng and .mil.ng domain names sensitisation forum and presentation of its reviewed policy to stakeholders in Abuja. “We are happy to see the growth trend of .gov.ng and .mil.ng in Nigeria in recent times. The total number of registered .ng domains from inception till date stands at 138,060 as of April 29. From this number, 2,274 are .gov.ng while 278 are .mil.ng. “It is worthy to note that the total number of gov.ng and .mil.ng domains registered from inception till October 2016 were 1,856. This means that 418 new domains were registered between November 2016 and April 2019 which signifies a percentage increase of 18.3 per cent,” he said. Earlier, the national president of the Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NIRA), Mr Muhammed Rudman, said using .gov.ng domain created platforms for business awareness, ensured security and enhance image. Rudman added that the use of government domain would ensure that data were hosted within government servers for protection. According to him, using generic domains can expose data supposed to be domicile within the country to irrelevant sources. “It is important we promote our domain name because when we host data in other domain names belonging to other countries, their server flourishes, while ours is diminishing economically,” he added. In her remarks, the executive secretary of NIRA, Mrs Edith Idiabu, said the association had 3R Model of registering domain names which include ‘Registry, Registrar and Registrant. According to Idiabu, the association has 66 accredited registrars with automated platforms and payment system platforms. She said they were working on getting registrars across the country who would ensure seamless registration processes for NIRA and NITDA. 