The Borno National and State Houses of Assembly tribunal adjourned until Thursday, hearing in the motions filed by the APC and INEC, praying the panel to dismiss a suit filed by the PDP challenging the election of Alhaji Ahmed Satomi. The PDP candidate Malam Bukar Shuwa, is challenging the declaration Satomi of All Progressive Congress (APC) as winner of the election into the Jere Federal Constituency of Borno seat held on Feb. 23, The tribunal headed by Justice Peter Kekemeke on Wednesday adjourned after the APC and INEC notified the panel of their pending applications for dismissal of the petition. In the petition dated March 15, with number, EPT/BO/HR/4/2019 and made available to NAN, Shuwa averred that the election was marred by irregularities and substantial non-compliance with provisions of the Electoral Act. He therefore sought the declaration of the tribunal for INEC to withdraw Satomi’s Certificate of Return and to conduct fresh election for the seat of Jere Federal Constituency. Satomi averred in his reply dated April, 29 made available to NAN, that the petitioners call for cancellation of the election is unconscionable and borne out of desire to truncate the franchise freely exercised by the electorate. He denied the petitioners’ allegations of connivance with INEC (3rd respondent) and put the petitioners to a strict proof of the allegations. Satomi further averred that he would rely on relevant documents to prove his points. He therefore urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition in its entirety for being frivolous, vexatious, unconscionable, gold digging and lacking on merit. Also adjourned until Thursday, is the petition by the PDP and its candidate, Emmanuel Bassi, challenging the victory of Dr Haruna Mshelia. Joined in the suit are INEC, APC, the  Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of Borno  and the Returning Officer INEC Askira/Uba/Hawul Fed. Constituency. The petition filed on March 15 had the number EPT/BO/HR/2/2019. PDP is challenging the declaration of Mshelia in the National Assembly election representing Askira/Uba/Hawul Fed. Constituency, held on Feb. 23. Bassi in his petition said that the declaration of Mshelia was unlawful. (NAN )