MTN Nigeria Communications Plc will today May 16, list its shares on the premium board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). A statement by the company yesterday said the listing will be done by way of an introductory listing which means that the shares of existing MTN Nigeria shareholders will be listed without an additional public sale of shares. From this point, all MTN Nigeria shareholders will be free to trade their shares on the NSE. MTN has been working since 2017 to ensure that it lists on NSE before the end of 2019 in line with the agreement with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to resolve the $5.2 billion fine for not deactivating unregistered subscriber identification module (SIM) cards. Speaking on the announcement, Ferdi Moolman, CEO of MTN Nigeria said “It gives me great pleasure to confirm that the official listing via introduction of MTN’s shares on the NSE will take place on Thursday May 16 (today).” He said the mobile operator appreciates the continued support afforded us by the government, regulators and people of this great nation. “In particular, I would like to thank the staff and management of MTN Nigeria who worked tirelessly to make this day possible. This is just the beginning, we still intend to pursue a future Public Offer giving more Nigerians greater access to the MTN opportunity.” MTN Group CFO, Ralph Mupita said “As MTN Group we are very pleased that we are taking this first and important step towards increasing the local ownership of the company, and building the equity capital markets in Nigeria.” MTN Nigeria recently announced its earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2019 recording 13.4 per cent growth in service revenue. This was driven by a 12.7 per cent and 32.4 per cent rise in voice and data revenue respectively and the addition of 2.1 million active mobile subscribers to the network. The company announced Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) of N150.4 billion and expanded EBITDA margins to 53.3 per cent (44.2 per cent, on an IAS 17 basis) due to growth in revenue and effective cost management.