As the race for the leadership of the 9th Senate  continues to gather momentum,  a new plan by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to gain advantage in the leadership tussle has been uncovered. LEADERSHIP gathered that there is an intense plot to stop the anointed candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen Ahmed Lawan, from emerging the next president of the Senate. A senator-elect of the PDP, who pleaded for anonymity, said the secret plot was hatched last week during a meeting he was part of, which was held at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel by the top echelon of the party. According to the senator-elect, the new plan is to engage a section of the media to give out false narratives about Lawan’s candidature in order to cause confusion in the camp of the APC senators-elect who might be sympathetic to him. “I was invited to a caucus meeting last week at (Transcorp) Hilton Hotel in Abuja where a plan was hatched to engage the traditional media and the social media to play an important role in a narrative against Sen Ahmed Lawan. “The idea is that Lawan will be portrayed as a candidate sponsored by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “Some people contributed money for some influential news outlets to propagate the narratives. I am uncomfortable with non-issues based politics and I won’t be part of it,” he said. The PDP senator-elect added that the campaign of calumny and blackmail would assume a fiery dimension as the election gets nearer, adding that it was the only way some people feel they can succeed. “It is feared by some top politicians that barring any unforeseen occurrence, Lawan will emerge the next president of the Senate having garnered a lot of senators-elect both in PDP and APC to his side,” he said. Another PDP senator-elect stated that his party was planning to play the role of strong opposition in the next assembly, adding that they will provide bloc votes for a particular candidate. The senator-elect, who did not mention the name of the candidate they would support, asserted that the leadership of the PDP would play a role in the selection of the leaders of the 9th National Assembly, adding that the elected lawmakers hold the key to who become their leaders.