The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has lamented that wastage of fund under past administrations of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron has contributed to the stunted growth of the academy. Amaechi stated this during the commissioning of some projects in the Academy. The minister had commissioned the academy’s new auditorium, two air conditioned classrooms, sports stadium, information technology (ICT) centres, simulator centre and library complex. The minister particularly accused the former rector of the Academy, Late Joshua Okpo, whom he said played a leading role in squandering N19billion in a year with abandoned projects littering the academy. Amaechi, who was however impressed with the level of development of the academy under the management of Commodore Emmanuel Effedua (rtd) , however assured that he would direct the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to always release the academy’s subvention at the bweginning of every year. “I don’t think this school lacks money because the former man who died when I looked at his books, in one year, he spent N19billion. “If you give me the money ,I will turn this place around and when I told him I will investigate him, two or three weeks later, he died I don’t know what killed him but if he had been alive we would have looked at how he spent N19billion because there were uncompleted projects,” he stated. Also, the minister gave a scenario where consultants were given huge percentage to help get the academy’s statutory subvention from NIMASA. He said, “Someone walk up to me one day and ask me to direct MAN, Oron to pay him his entitlement and I asked what entitlement? He said he was hired as a contractor to raise money from NIMASA, is that a contract? NIMASA that the minister can call and they will pay so, that’s how they are siphoning money.” He however stated further, “Money is not the problem of MAN because there is NIMASA and the federal government budget, but the problem is the application of those resources.” However, the rector of the academy, disclosed that the academy would focus more on acquisition of equipment and training for cadets this year. According to him, the academy has employed additional 15 lecturers and would also add foreigners in other to achieve global competitiveness. “Last year, we focused on physical infrastructure. This year, we are focusing on equipment and training. This auditorium that we are seated right now and the ICT commissioned earlier today are part of the dividend of last year’s effort. The Indian engineers who are partnering with us to ensure we have the necessary equipment, will arrive Abuja and by Thursday (tomorrow), they should be in Oron to visit the simulation centre to take note of the necessary measurement. Hopefully, by November 2019, the multifunctional classrooms should be in place,”he said.