The operatives of the state police command have nabbed 28-year-old Arinze Okorie, a native of Iyienu Ogidi in Idemili-North local government area of Anambra State. LEADERSHIP SUNDAY gathered that Okorie and his gang members specialised in luring their unsuspecting Facebook friends to where they could rob them at gunpoint. Okorie and his two other gang members were said to have invited one of their Facebook friends, one Chimieze Abordike, aged 28 years, a native of Ogbunike in the neighbouring Oyi local government area of the state, through Facebook contact, to somewhere at Ilongwodo Ogidi area in Idemili-North local government area, abducted him into a bush and robbed him at gunpoint of the sum of N5000, his mobile phone while also forcing him to surrender to them his ATM card with which they later withdrew the sum of N51,000 from his bank account. According to reports, the incident happened on Thursday. However, luck ran out of Abordike’s assailants following a tip off to the men of the Ogidi Police station by some good spirited members of the public. Immediately, a team of operatives from the police station launched a manhunt for the hoodlums. The image-maker of the Anambra State Police Command, Mr Mohammed Haruna, who confirmed the incident yesterday, said that following the tip-off, a team of operatives from the police station and that of the newly launched Inspector-General of Police (IGP)’s special security task force code-named “Operation Adder”, swiftly went after the hoodlums. He said that on getting to the bush where the hoodlums were keeping Abordike, the hoodlums opened fire on the police team and as a result of the police team’s retaliation, the hoodlums abandoned their victim and made to escape but one of them, Arinze Okorie, was arrested while the other two members of his gang escaped. Haruna assured that the state police command was committed to making sure that the other two fleeing members were arrested and all of them made to face the wrath of the law. He stated that the case was under investigation after which the suspects would be charged to court for prosecution and advised members of the public “to be weary of strangers and dubious Facebook friends in order not to fall victim to similar ugly incidents”.