The management of Lagos State University on Thursday revealed that about 57 students will graduate with first class degrees as the university holds her 23rd convocation ceremonies this month. The Vice-Chancellor, LASU, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, who disclosed this during a pre-convocation press conference at the institution on Thursday said that the duo of Ridwan Oladotun Ola-Gbadamosi from the Faculty of Engineering and Nneka Karen Enumah of the Faculty of Science emerged as the overall best graduating students with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.88. He said that while a total of 14,369 students will be graduating including diploma, first and higher degrees graduands, a total of 54 would be honoured with diploma degrees; a total of 4,063 as approved by senate will be honoured with higher degrees; and 10,252 with first degrees which cuts across 1,233 second class upper division honours, 8,471 second class lower division honours, 467 third class honours and 24 for pass. Fagbohun while fielding questions from newsmen expressed delight over improvement on the number of first class graduates compared to last year’s convocation where the institution produced 26 first class graduates, saying it is as a result of the product of quality assurance that students have keyed into to improve themselves. “The product of quality of assurance is what the institution has continually delivered and our students have keyed into this vision of the university to improve their knowledge through every nooks and crannies of the university. “In terms of evaluation, we now have a quality assurance directorate evaluating all the things we do to ensure that there is quality in what we are doing and to ensure that we are able to fulfil the motto of what we are doing,” Fagbohun said. Part of the convocation ceremonies will depict a convocation lecture topic titled, “Africa Centres of Excellence in African Universities: A Veritable Catalyst for Nation Building and Development which would be delivered by His Excellency, Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Oluyemi Osinbajo on May 16, where former President of Ghana, John Mahama, will be the Chairman of the day. The institution explained that the students that made first class are among the 1, 042 graduates that will bag the institution’s degrees at the event slated for Sunday, October 21. 