An executive bill, which provides for a legal and institutional framework for the confiscation, seizure, forfeiture, recovery and management of assets or proceeds derived from unlawful activities, including instrumentalities used or intended to be used in the commission of unlawful activities, is creating ripples within the anti-graft agencies. Our correspondent gathered that officials of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission-EFCC-and the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission-ICPC, are already raising concerns over the bill, which they insisted was targeted at weakening the war against corruption. Titled: “Proceeds of Crime Bill 2019”, the bill is currently awaiting President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent. It provides for the establishment of the Proceeds of Crime Management Agency which will manage seized funds and assets. The proposed law, which LEADERSHIP accessed, seeks to remove the investigative power of the anti-corruption agencies which have primary responsibility of investigation and recovery of proceeds of crime contrary to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) recommendations. The bill also made it very difficult and financially burdensome for the anti-graft agencies to initiate and execute the process leading to asset recovery. Section 162  (3) of the bill seeks to delete Sections 6 (d),13 (2)(c), 20, 21, 22 24, 25(a) (c) and d 26 (1) (b), 29,33, and 34 of the EFCC Act relating to its power to investigate, prosecute and confiscate assets contrary to the Financial Action Task Force recommendation which states that the team responsible for asset recovery shall be based in the anti-corruption agency that has the authority to investigate prosecute or both. Similarly, the bill seeks to derogate from the United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 1267, 1373 and successive resolutions on Targeted Financial Sanctions Against Designated Terrorist Persons and Entities by deleting Section 6 (d) of the EFCC Act which gives the commission power to investigate and enforce Terrorism Prevention Act. The implication of the deletion of Section 6(d) of the EFCC Act which gives the EFCC powers to investigate and enforce Terrorism (Prevention) Act as it relates to terrorism financing, is that the agency will be unable to implement the said UNSCR. In a bid to give legislative backing to the various attempts at whittling down the powers of the EFCC and other anti-corruption agencies, Section 157 of the bill renders null and void any provisions of the enabling statutes of those agencies which are inconsistent with its provisions. It, therefore, elevates itself above all other relevant laws including the EFCC Act, ICPC Act, Police Act, Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) and Tribunal Act, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) Act, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Act, Evidence Act, Administration of Criminal Justice Act, Terrorism (Prevention) Act, Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, Customs and Excise Management Act, among others Section 162 of the bill also seeks to delete several critical provisions of the enabling legislations of anti-corruption agencies. These provisions sought to be deleted are the tools used in achieving the giant strides in assets tracing, recovery and successful prosecutions by the EFCC and others. A top security source, who pleaded with President Buhari to decline assent to the bill, said that “by provisions of parts i, ii and iii of the bill, the exercise of powers relating to civil forfeiture is restricted to the proposed Proceeds of Crime Management Agency”. The arrangement, he argued is not justifiable. At present, the anti-corruption agencies exercise the power of civil forfeiture or non-conviction based confiscation. According to him, “in the event that there is need for the enactment of this bill, it should be aimed at strengthening relevant existing legislations and creating institutional framework for the efficient management and disposal of finally forfeited assets only. “Assent to this bill will not only cripple the operations and the efficiency of the EFCC, but will jeopardise the anti-corruption drive of Mr. President and reverse the gains already recorded by this administration,” he said. In a reaction to the bill, an official of the EFCC said, “one of the objectives of the Proceeds of Crime Management Agency as contained in the bill is to coordinate and enforce all other laws relating to assets recovery. This is not only absurd, but retrogressive in as much as it seeks to place all the anti-corruption agencies which have been tested over time and found to be very effective with established structures and personnel, under the control and supervision of an infant agency without any such established structures or experienced personnel. This in effect will adversely affect the anti-corruption agenda of Mr. President.” He noted that “the provisions of the bill appear to be part of a systematic and organised scheme to frustrate the operations of the EFFC and thereby derail the anti-corruption fight of this administration. This is because Section 32 of the bill is a clear departure from the existing non-conviction based forfeiture as it creates a window for the suspect or any interested party to reclaim already forfeited assets. The EFCC official observed that Sections 25, 64, and 69 of the bill allows the suspect to benefit from the proceeds of his crime by providing for the reasonable expenses for himself, dependants and legal team to be settled from the said proceeds.” The United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa, which had similar structure as proposed in the bill were forced to disband them and revert to the status quo because they were ineffective and unsustainable. It’s An Executive Bill – Lawmakers Meanwhile, the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has said that the passage of the bill, which originated from the executive, will strengthen the anti-corruption fight in the country. According to him, it was presented to the National Assembly as an executive bill to harmonise and consolidate the existing legal frameworks. It was sponsored in the 8th Assembly by the chairman of the House Committee on Financial Crimes, Hon. Kayode Oladele, and passed before the National Assembly transmitted it to Buhari for his assent. He said that the bill provides for a legal and institutional framework for the confiscation, seizure, forfeiture, recovery and management of assets or proceeds derived from unlawful activities, including instrumentalities used or intended to be used in the commission of unlawful activities. Last month, the Senate passed the bill to pave way for the country to become a full member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The bill is one of two bills which are key requirements for the membership of the global body where only South Africa represents the African continent at the moment. Speaking after the passage of the bill, Saraki had said that the 8th Assembly had empowered the anti-graft agencies to do their work effectively. “This is commendable and this bill if signed into law my Mr. President will help in the fight against corruption. Even though it came as an executive bill, the Senate and indeed the National Assembly worked hard to ensure that we strengthen the anti-corruption fight,” Saraki said during plenary. FATF is an inter-governmental organisation founded in 1989 to develop policies to combat all predicate crimes through the prevention of laundering, terrorism financing and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. A report by the Federal Ministry of Justice which justified the need for the passage of the bill in 2014, the Proceeds of Crime Bill was a product of far-reaching consultations and collaborations with stakeholders and development partners in a bid to ensure that its provisions were in conformity with global best practices, while also meeting Nigeria’s legal framework for rule of law.