In this report, Abu Nmodu chronicles deliberate policies by the management of the Federal College of Freshwater Fisheries Technology, New Bussa, Niger state to turn out graduates who will be self- employed and job creators. In its bid to ensure that its students become self- employed, job and wealth creators after their graduation, the management of the Federal College of Freshwater Fisheries Technology in New Bussa, Niger state has made the acquisition of entrepreneurial skills by its students a deliberate policy. The college is striving hard to fulfill its core mandate in fish farming/aquaculture, fish feed production, fish processing and marketing and as well providing entrepreneurial opportunities in fish farming to ensure food security in the country. The College’s management under the  leadership of the provost, Dr. Francis Oladun Moody, has over the years graduated students in different areas of fisheries technology to boost national economy. Recently at the 2018/2019 session matriculation ceremony of the college where 400 new intakes took oath, the provost in his speech, said “in line with vision and mission of the college,  emphasis has been on quality teaching and learning with sound research,encompassing  entrepreneurship and self employability with good character from products of the School ”. He stated further that feedbacks reaching the school  from the employers of her products, are very encouraging, assuring that the standard shall not only be sustained but improved upon even in the  face of inadequate funding with a view to continue  contributing their quota to national economy and development in Nigeria, and indeed in Africa. The College is in the forefront of the federal government’s agenda for employment of youths with entrepreneurial skills. “Our determined efforts for excellence and self employability directly key into the Federal Government Agenda of youth employment. In this college there is no alternative to excellence and good character with entrepreneurial skills,” Moody stated. The provost told the 400 new intakes that the management of the college is ever ready to solve their problems as quickly as possible. “I want to assure you that your lecturers and instructors are all on top of imparting knowledge and ever ready providing technical knowhow to help you fulfill your studentship in the college”, he said. Moody, however, admonished the students against all manner of vices, saying “the college has zero tolerance for cultism just as punishment for cheating in exams is dismissal. Our college is a model citadel of learning, where we appreciate character, hard work and excellence”. The college has made fish farming for employment and income generation its priority. This process includes fish production, post harvest management, fish processing (smoking, drying, icing, canning etc.) fish marketing and fisheries education while areas such as fish transportation, net repairs, fabrication, cold room operators, production of fishing inputs such as floats, sinkers, ropes, buoys and so on. It also includes livestock feed manufacturing, providing indirect employment through fish farming. Fish and fisheries products for foreign exchange must also be acknowledged at this platform to create awareness and public enlightenment. The exportation of shrimp, ornamental fish, smoked fish and other fisheries product to Europe and many African countries is a major source of foreign exchange in Nigeria. The college has come a long way in imparting sound knowledge to students and those who required it for socio economic advancement in the society. It’s very much on course to break new grounds in its professional and skills field of endeavours. Also speaking, the Registrar of the college,Alhaji Idris Akolade said, “Our College is a reference point in comity of fishery colleges in the country and indeed Africa. Our distinguished Provost Dr. Francis Oladun Moody is an erudite scholar, a good team player in his efforts to turning the college into “an ivory tower for fisheries: fish farming for food security, employment generation and national economy”. Federal College of Freshwater Fisheries Technology, New Bussa 2018/2019 matriculation ceremony must have come and gone, but the memories  will  be evergreen in the minds of the new intakes, guests, parents and the college community. The Provost has reaffirmed the ability of the college management to the growth of the college, by promoting unity among its public, students and management. Policies have been put  in place to ensure peaceful co-existence in the college; security of the students and workers are guaranteed, while all efforts are geared towards strengthening power supply and access roads within the college campus.