Nigeria’s economy is expected to meet the 2.47 per cent growth targeted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as analysts expect the economy to gather momentum in the second half of the year. With growth in the first half of the year propelled by the non-oil sector of the economy, analysts at FXTM say a rebound in the oil sector and improved growth of the non-oil sector would see the country achieve the growth target. According to Lukman Otunuga, analyst at FXTM, “the news that Nigeria’s economy cooled down to 2.05 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2.38 percent in Q4’18 has left investors wondering about the chances of growth gathering momentum during the second half of the year. “On the one hand, it is an encouraging sign we have seen the fastest first-quarter growth since 2015, driven mainly by the non-oil sector which grew 2.47 percent. On the other hand, the Oil sector shrank by 2.4 percent, sending a worrying signal that the sector isn’t doing as well as it should be even amid rising Oil prices.” Noting that economic growth is unlikely to reach the ambitious Economic Recover and Growth Plan (ERGP) target of seven per cent, he said it may hit the CBN target of 2.47 per cent if there is a rebound in the growth trend in the oil sector “and the services sector would need to sustain its current strength. “Added momentum could stem from Oil prices should they hit a bullish streak going forward, supporting the economy as the Oil trade still accounts for a handsome chunk of the nation’s foreign exchange earnings. “There needs to be a stronger push in diversifying away from Oil reliance to other sources of sustainable growth. An important part of sustainable growth is investment sentiment and the current economic stability along with easing inflationary pressures which may lead to a more dovish CBN monetary policy by way of interest rate cuts. If so, a reduction in interest rates would stimulate borrowing and investment from local businesses, which in turn would support economic growth. A more robust economy plus foreign exchange reserves rising towards $45 billion would likely provide ammunition for the CBN to defend the Naira. “Looking ahead, there is scope for Nigeria’s economy to gather momentum in the second half of the year, provided some key basics of growth are kept in focus: supportive monetary policy; keeping consumer spending healthy; sustaining investor confidence; and improving economic infrastructure, particularly in the Oil sector. “Even if the risks stemming from US-China trade disputes are out of Nigeria’s hands, shoring up the domestic economy could help it weather any storms. The worst-case alternative is less attractive. If a global slowdown is triggered due to the trade tensions, economic growth in Nigeria may follow suit, meaning the CBN will face more difficult challenges to support the Naira and wider economy through monetary policy,” he said.