Oxfam and its partner Development Exchange Commission (DEC) in Kebbi State are developing a joint work plan on improving food security and building resilience through sustainable community development engagement in Kebbi State with government, CSOs, NGOs and the media. This was made known to newsmen in Birnin Kebbi by Pro Resilience Action (PROACT) project manager in Kebbi State, Olumide Ojo,  shortly after a two -day workshop organised for key development partners and government officials to come up with a framework on food and nutrition security for implementation. According to Ojo, the project was funded by European Union towards  improving food security and building life resilience on vulnerable  rural people. He said the project is targeting 30 rural communities across Birnin Kebbi, Danko Wasagu and Jega local governments. He further explained that the project was funded by European Union towards improving food security and building life resilience on vulnerable rural people. He said that the 30 communities were drawn across Birnin Kebbi, Danko Wasagu and Jega local government areas of Kebbi State. “The project is targeting food and security as well as resilience livelihood in Kebbi and Adamawa states,” he said. He said one of the key objectives of the project was to be able to develop strategic linkages with other development partners in Kebbi so that together they would map out effective and relevant knowledge areas and also build on one another’s area of strength as well as foster quality partnership to improve food and nutrition in the state. Ojo further added that the partnership and synergy created during  the meeting gave birth to the formation of Development Partners Forum in Kebbi that would jointly work together to hasten development through mutual understanding. The PROACT Governance and Influencing coordinator, Usman Faleye also said that the project has four years duration with the aim of  creating a uniform force to support Kebbi government reduce poverty  and ensure quality collaboration and partnership between development  partners in Kebbi State to achieve poverty reduction and eradication.