Ahead of the inauguration of governors-elect in 29 states of the federation on May 29, 2019, Nigerians have set agenda for the state chief executives. Governorship elections were not held in Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo, Ekiti, Kogi, Ondo, and Osun states during the 2019 general elections because the tenure of the incumbent governors had not expired. Prominent among the citizens’ demands from the incoming governors are adequate security,  infrastructure, more jobs, and affordable housing. Others are quality healthcare services, education, women and youth empowerment, and soft loans. In a nationwide interview conducted by LEADERSHIP Weekend on their agenda from both the new governors and others re-elected for a second term, Nigerians charged them to rally round all the security agencies to tackle the security challenges facing the country. They lamented that there was no part of the country again where the citizens sleep with their two eyes closed because of the activities of kidnappers, bandits, Boko Haram insurgents, armed robbers, and cultists. According to them, they expect the incoming governors to use their first 100 days in office to hit the ground running by sending a strong message to criminals across the country that it won’t be business as usual for them again. Mr. Gideon Jomun, a graduate and an indigene of Benue State said that the best legacies Governor Samuel Ortom can leave at the end of his eight-year rule is to quickly address his poor performance during the first term by collaborating with security forces top make Benue safe, tackle the widespread unemployment in the state by empowering women and youths with skills and loans. He said that the people need jobs because the only thriving industry in the state is Okada riding (commercial motorcycling). This has resulted in urban migration, he said, adding that governor should also pay the workers’ salaries and pensions. Dr. Abigail Ubah called for improved healthcare services while Christian Osante, CEO, Bridgetown Integrated Solutions, want security prioritised. Beat Al-Makura’s Record, Nasarawa People Tell Sule Residents in Nasarawa State said that the new governor, Abdullahi Alhaji Sule, who was elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), should not think that running the state would be a tea party, considering the humongous challenges before him. They charged him to perform better than the outgoing governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, who they noted executed several projects and infrastructure. In spite of Al-Makura performance, the people said that Sule must revive the Nasarawa On The Move public transport agency which in the past generated huge revenue for the state. “The incoming governor must revive the once most vibrant transport company in the country to prove that he is a businessman,” Yakubu Adamu said. On his part, Alhaji Mahmmud, an APC stakeholder, tasked the new governor to ensure that his commissioners present their workplan with an inbuilt targeting system that must be reported upon weekly or bi-weekly at the State Executive Council (SEC) meeting. APC youth leader in the state, Mohammed Ayitogo, said that like other states in the country, Nasarawa has a vibrant teeming population of youths and asked Sule to harness their potential in agriculture, sports, ICT, entertainment and others. Mrs. Olubumi Daniel, a pharmacist said that the incoming government should correct the mistakes of the past governments by providing a congenial working environment for medical professionals to work. Bala Mohammed Tasked On Youth Empowerment, Inclusive Govt In Bauchi State, a human rights activist, Mbami Sabka wants incoming governor Bala Mohammed to run an inclusive government in appointments and job creation. He said that there should be an effective youth empowerment programme to reduce the crime rate in the state. Sabka who interfaces with prison inmates through his Prison Inmates Development Initiatives (PIDI), explained that white collar jobs had become a mirage hence the governor-elect should ensure that the youths are actively engaged. For Mahmuda Danliti, the new government should empower the youths to guard against idleness. Danliti, a tricycle rider, lamented that many youths who have graduated from schools have no jobs. He, therefore, wants the incoming administration to provide employment for them so that violence and other criminal activities can be reduced. Katsina Stakeholders Want Special Focus On Security Experts, trade unionists, and others in Katsina State have asked re-elected governor Aminu Masari to squarely face the security challenges and speedily implement the new minimum wage of N30,000. Comrade Kabir Garba Matazu, former deputy secretary-general of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), said that the worrisome security situation in the state must not be toyed with and that the take-off of the new wage must not be delayed. Matazu said: “Out of the problems that cut across almost all the six geo-political zones of Nigeria, the foremost is insecurity. There is a need for collaboration between Katsina State and the federal government “to ensure that there is relative peace because without peace nothing works.” The former chairman of Public Service Joint Negotiating Council, Katsina State and former chairman of the state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Alhaji Lawal Zingina, enjoined Masari to continue to build on the solid foundation his administration had laid in education, agriculture, health and security sectors. Dr. Lolu Ademoye of Family Care Hospital said that there should be more funding for the health sector especially as many people were dying from diseases and sicknesses that are presentable. Borno Stakeholders Wants Adequate Security, Workers’ Welfare Stakeholders in Borno State have urged the incoming administration of Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum to consolidate on the achievements of Governor Kashim Shettima in the areas of security, human capital development and the resettlement of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). A human rights activist, Hamsatu Alamin called for synergy between the state government and the federal government to end the over 10-year Boko Haram insurgency which has impoverished the people of the state. She lamented that some displaced persons including children orphaned by the terrorists were still wallowing in pains with no hope in sight for them. The newly-elected state chairman of the NLC, Comrade Bulama Abiso, urged the new governor to go back to the drawing board on the welfare of workers. Abiso said that the story of workers in the state is one of mixed feelings of joy, sadness, noting that while workers were joyous for getting the N18,000 minimum wage, some were yet to benefit from the package. ‘el-Rufai Must Tackle Insecurity, Unemployment, Poverty In Kaduna’ A Kaduna-based legal practitioner, Abuul Hiifan, has appealed to returning governor Nasir el-Rufai to immediately address insecurity, unemployment, and poverty in the state. Abuul also tasked him to boost internally-generated revenue for self-reliance than relying on federal allocations. Also, Barr. Suleiman Ahmed Akasawua, national chairman of NPC and president, Democracy Dividends Development Initiatives, charged the governor to tackle the disunity in the state. Citizens Seek Better Business Environment In Kebbi In the next four years, the people of Kebbi State want returning governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu to create a more conducive atmosphere for business to thrive in the state. A businessman in Kebbi, Alhaji Umar Yalli, who sells communication gadgets/recharge cards in the state capital asked the governor to explore more investment sources to develop the hide and skin sector. Yalli said that the state was blessed with abundant livestock and its products hence the need to take advantage of it for the benefit of the people. ‘’If Bagudu can replicate what is happening in Aba, I mean to construct a similar leather factory in the state, it will certainly help in boosting the economy of the state and providing jobs to our teaming unemployed youths,” he said. A prominent politician and chairman of Kebbi APC Elders’ Forum, Alhaji Sani Hukuma Zauro, implored the governor-elect to invest in human resources and appoint people of integrity to help him deliver on his mandate to people during his second tenure. He said that the only way the state could develop rapidly was by getting people who are trusted, hardworking and innovative to form the new government. Tambuwal’s Govt Too Elitist, Say Artisans, Others Scores of professionals and artisans in Sokoto State have asked re-elected governor Aminu Tambuwal, to do better in his second term by promoting good governance. They urged him to change his governance principle from what they termed “elitist mentality and undue protocols” by allowing the led to have more access to him. Also, majority of the workers in the state said that though Tambuwal has tried in salary payment, they, however, admonished him to consider the implementation of the new minimum wage of N30,000. The artisans and laymen took a swipe at the governor’s approach to governance and lamented that his government is not impacting them like his predecessors. Agriculture, Industries Deserve Special Attention In Imo In Imo State, Chief Nwadiuto Nnakwe Ubaruo, an Owerri-based businessman said that the recession occasioned by the global economic downturn is still affecting businesses and state affairs. He said:  “I expect the governor-elect, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, to put smiles on the faces of Imolites by putting food on the tables of these embattled class of people. “Our agricultural sector should be revived and genuinely interested farmers given the necessary incentives to go into intensive and extensive farming,” he said. Nze Benson Nkwachukwu Ugwegbulem, a school teacher said that “the governor-elect should create jobs for the teeming unemployed youths, adding that the state’s school system needs a surgical operation to promote qualitative teaching and learning.” Chief Nehemiah Iwuchukwu Ohadinjo, a lawyer, asked Ihedioha to establish factories and industries in the state, operate sound economic policies and bring in experts into strategic sectors to boost the economy. Deltans Challenge Okowa On Education, Others For re-elected governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, NUT chairman, Comrade Titus Okotie, said that he should motivate the teachers to give their best. He said: “Another area is university graduates teaching in primary schools. We want a situation during the governor’s second term that justice and fair play reign; that where everyone will be compensated according to his or her qualifications. University graduate-teachers in primary schools should be promoted beyond Level 13 and it should not be a selective exercise. Comrade Sheriff Mulade, an environmental activist, said: “We have a slogan for Okowa’s second term and that is ‘Okowa for Cleaner Delta,’ because when you go round Delta State, especially the major cities, Asaba, Kwale, Agbor, Ughelli, Sapele, Warri, Oghara, they do not show that we are environmentally conscious. Our environment is not friendly.” A youth leader, Ozofere Andrew, said: “We advise him not to embark on discriminating governance, he should run an inclusive government.” Cross Riverians Demand Equity, Fairness From Gov Ayade Mr. Clarkson Otu, a lawyer and chairman of the Cross River State chapter of Trade Union Congress (TUC) called on Governor Ben Ayade to ensure equity, social justice, and fairness in the distribution of the common wealth instead of a few enjoying it while the majority wallow in abject poverty. Clarkson also asked the re-elected governor not to borrow for the construction of a superhighway because it is not important to the state now, Dr.  Margaret Arop, a medical doctor said that Ayade should solve the problems of workers’ gratuities and promotions seriously. She sought special treatment for medical practitioners to boost their morale and ensure effective service delivery. To Joy Nsan, a teacher, Ayade should with no further delay implement the N30,000 new minimum wage. Enugu, Oyo Electorate Plead For Loans, Improved IGR In an interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend in Enugu, the programme coordinator of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), Mr. Kindness Jonah, said that agriculture is one of the pivotal issues that should be looked into by the governor-elect. He advised the re-elected governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to find out the problems facing the sector and tackle them so that agriculture would occupy its rightful position in the state. A businessman, Mr. Ikechukwu Agu, urged the governor to further provide soft loans for businessmen and women in the state. A cross section of residents of Oyo State has appealed to the governor-elect, Mr. Seyi Makinde, to base his economic blueprint on how to improve on the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). A political analyst, Olusola Ogundele, said that the promised free education, free medical services and other basic needs for the people by politicians during electioneering had become unfulfilled, as most of them could not raise the money to implement them. He, therefore, called on the incoming governor to think outside the box to generate the money to finance his projects and programmes. Barr. Olatunde Ademola said that the outgoing government had laid a solid foundation for modern Oyo State and urged Makinde to raise the bar in infrastructural development. An educationist, Mrs. Abimbola Aweda, said that the development of the education sector would lead to the development of other sectors, and appealed to the governor-elect to increase the sectoral allocation to meet the standard set by UNESCO Lagos Physically-challenged Begs Sanwo-Olu For Assistance The National Association of Persons Living With Disabilities (NAPLWD) Lagos State chapter wants the governor-elect, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to assist its members. The state chairman of NAPLWD, Dare Dairo, urged Sanwo-Olu to institute a culture of inclusion in all facets of government planning, policies and programmes for them to contribute their quota to the development of the state. He also appealed to the governor-elect to implement the Lagos Disability Law when he takes over the mantle of leadership in the state, noting that, “most local government authorities are not aware of the disability law which provides a comprehensive legal and policy framework for the empowerment, welfare and protection of the rights of people living with disabilities in the state.” Dapo Abiodun Should Learn From Amosun’s Mistakes There is, however, uncertainty in Ogun State over the ability and the willingness of the governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, to fulfil his electoral promises when he assumes office. Most of the residents said that they were worried about the incoming governor’s promises in the areas of security, education, and primary healthcare delivery. A medical practitioner, Dr. Adewunmi Alayaki, asked the incoming administration to embark on a fact-finding mission across the state to enable him identify those areas where the citizens were not happy with the outgoing governor which made his anointed candidate to lose the election. “Let Dapo Abiodun listen to what the people say about Amosun; look at those areas where he failed and then harmonise them with his programme of actions for the state,” he said. The national secretary of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Comrade Yinka Folarin, advised the governor-elect to prioritise good governance and enhance participatory government. A legal practitioner, Isaac Izuyan, would want the incoming administration to liberalise the justice system in Ogun. Udom Should Concentrate On Agriculture, Education, Infrastructure In Akwa Ibom State, the people want returning governor Udom Emmanuel to place emphasis on infrastructure, agriculture and human capital development. Barr. Ubong John of Decastle Chambers in Eket said that infrastructure is critical to the development of the state with a population of over four million people. He, therefore, advised the governor to invest in human capital development, healthcare, education and food production through sustainable farming. Pastor James Udo of Flame of Fire Ministry in Ikot Ekpene tasked the governor in his second term to focus on providing basic and functional education in the state, especially in the area of technical and vocational development. On his part, Mr. Clifford Thomas of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), said: “I don’t think it is possible to solve all the problems in four years, but work should start in earnest on managing the unemployment index of youths in the state to stem the tide of cultism and other social vices For Dr. Lazarus Maigoro, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) chairman, University of Jos, (UNIJOS), both the federal and state government should continue to fund education well in the country. According to him, education is the bedrock of any nation that wants to develop, stressing that any policy on education should be backed up with action, not just a policy statement. Mazi Anthony Eze, a Jos-based businessman who deals in building materials and Dr. Charles Onuh, who owns a private hospital in Jos, the governor should create a business-friendly environment to encourage people to venture into it. They lamented the high rate of foreign exchange in the country and urged the federal government to take drastic action against it to ameliorate the sufferings of Nigerians.