As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the Nigerian Breweries (NB Plc) has expressed its commitment to continue to make positive impacts in the areas of education, health, agriculture and environment in the immediate communities where they operate and other parts of the country. Corporate Affairs director, Sade Morgan who made this known at the weekend during a media parley held in Lagos said that Nigerian Breweries  is a socially responsible corporate organisation with a good track record of corporate social initiatives. Morgan said the company’s CSR since the company was incorporated in Nigeria in 1946 is driven by a vision to always “Winning with Nigeria” and that over the years, NB Plc has been very active in supporting national development aspirations in line with that vision. According to Morgan, Nigerian Breweries has recorded improved growth and now has 9 Breweries doing 19 brands, cutting across Lagos, Ibadan, Ota, Ijebu Ode, Awomanma, Aba and other parts of the country. With a huge number of Nigerian shareholders, the director also informed, that the company will hold its pre Annual General Meeting (AGM) on the 7th of May, 2019 at the Civic Centre, Lagos. She also hinted that Heineken now has 55.95% interest in Nigerian Breweries while Nigeria has 44.05%. Informing that Nigerian Breweries has made huge success in the areas of enhancing the Sorghum Value Chain in some parts of East Africa, Morgan noted that the company is considering to support commercial production of sorghum, one of Nigeria’s major staple foods and a commercially viable grain grown in Nigeria. In education, she said the company in 1994 established an Education Trust Fund with a take-off grant of N100 million to take more active part in the funding of educational and research activities in institutions of higher learning in an effort to encourage academic excellence in Nigeria. This is in addition to its secondary and university scholarship programmes for children of employees. In addition, she said Nigeria Breweries also initiated Maltina Teacher of the Year on the platform of Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund which is a social arm of the company, designed to identify, showcase and reward teachers who are outstanding among their peers nationwide. Morgan however, pointed out that her company is also planning to bring in retired teachers who may have done well when there were in active teaching profession. These crop of teachers, she said are to be nominated by their ex-students. “We don’t want only serving teachers to benefit from the” Maltina Teacher of the Year”. We also want those teachers who are no longer in service but must have made their marks when they were in service, to benefit. They will be nominated by their ex-students “, Morgan said. In the health sector, Morgan said NB Plc has equally made donation of equipment to some teaching hospitals across the country and other medical equipment. He decried the inability of some institutions who she said find it very difficult to maintain some of the facilities donated to them. She therefore, said that NB Plc is considering making some investments alongside the donations so that beneficiaries of their donations would be able to generate funds that would be used to maintain such facilities. Corroborating Morgan, Corporate Communications and Brand Public Relations Manager, Mr Patrick Olowokere said that through the Nigerian Breweries- Felix Ohiwerie Education Trust Fund the company has made significant impact on the Nigerian. Olowokere said winner of last year’s Maltina Teacher of the Year went home with a certificate and N1 million plus additional N500, 000 he received as a state champion from Abuja and because they don’t want winners to win and leave the teaching profession, Olowokere said Nigerian Breweries strategically splited the cash prize in such a way that he gets another N1 million every year for the next five years while a block of six classrooms would be built by the company for his school for producing him. According to Olowokere, the education fund which started with a take-off grant of N100 million in 1994 has grown tremendously, adding that all tiers of educational institution have benefited from the fund’s projects, including primary, secondary and tertiary. At the tertiary level, , he said the fund recently made a 1 Million Dollars donation to the Pan African University, donated a science laboratory at the University of Nsukka, N10 Million worth of microscopes to the Department of Crop Production and Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife as well as Computers and UPS’ to the University of Ibadan. The intent of the fund he added is to help as many Nigerian students as it possibly can to gain qualitative education that enables them to compete favourably with other students all over the world and ultimately live productive and fulfilled lives.