The Executive Chairman, of Federal Character Commission (FCC), Barr. Abayomi Sheba has said that the commission is charge with the principle of gender equity in recruitment and appointment. Barr. Abayomi Sheba disclosure this during the workshop with the theme: ‘Attaining Gender Inclusion in Federal Character Commission and other MDAs’ organised by (FCC) on Wednesday in Abuja. Sheba was represented by the Secretary to Commission, Mohammed Bello Tukur said, “The Federal Character Commission is one of the key institutions of Government that is charged with the responsibility of main streaming Gender with its principle aimed at ensuring fairness and equity.” “The present administration which has been reelected is doing so much to ensure equity and fairness in the distribution of socio-economic amenities and infrastructural facilities, thereby reducing fear of deprivation and marginalisation in the country. “As we are aware, gender inequality is the accessing socio-economic and political opportunities among others has remained key policy problem in Nigeria,” he said He urges the women to set of guidelines that will integrate affirmative action on women’s representation within the Federal, State civil service, armed forces, Nigeria police force, other security agencies, also women in political appointments at National and State levels. According to him, the long term goal of the National Gender Policy (NGP) is to reduce inequalities in the opportunities and outcome of social, economic, political, cultural and legal development for both men and women. In his address, the Director, soci-economic and infrastructure department, FCC, Mr. Dipo Akinsola explain that the workshop is to address gender unit approached to engage, reform and learn, accountable responsive capable government for technical support in order to enhance the capacity building for staff to enable their operational effectiveness and efficiency,” he said. The facilitator of the workshop Ms Safiya Adamu, in her presentation said, “Growth cannot be properly measured where the contribution of the population of women is down played or overlooked, such domestic women not accounted for disparity in access to education, cultural examples such as the girl child education, early marriage, subtle and obvious hostility from male colleges in the offices. “Equity between women and man, the girl and boy child provides foundation for empowerment,” she said.