Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has sued for calm over the killing of Mr Ariyo Aina in Ogga, Yagba West local government area of Kogi State in the early hours of yesterday, saying the perpetrators of the dastardly act will not only be brought to book, “but also that government will stop this ugly trend in its track”. The governor indicated this in a statement signed by his director general of Media and Publicity, Mr Kingsley Fanwo. He said the lives of Kogites are very important to him, hence, the heavy investment he made to ensure adequate security for all inhabitants of Kogi State, insisting that those who disturb the peace of the state will be brought to justice. He stated: “Human life is sacrosanct. The life of every Kogite is important to us as an administration. We take staunch exceptions to criminals who terrorise the lives of our people. Those who killed citizen Ariyo Aina will face justice and my administration will roll out some policies in the coming days to mitigate possible future occurrences. “It is our responsibility to provide security to all of our people within our territory, which we have done creditably. We take responsibility for any breach of such security architecture and will make efforts to mend the cracks and continue to give confidence to our people. “As we sympathise with the people of Ogga community and Yagba West as a whole, we wish to assure the people that we will leave no stone unturned in tracking the criminals that put an unfortunate end to the life of our citizens. “Government has directed the state security adviser, Commander Jerry Omodara (Rtd) to coordinate a productive security operation aimed at apprehending the murderers as well as provide an assuring security for the people of the area. “We urge members of the public to help security agencies with useful information that could lead to the arrest of the criminals and also appeal to the people not to take laws into their hands. Government is capable of defending the people in the face of blatant and unacceptable violence against them. “We commiserate, particularly, with the family members of Mr Ariyo and pray God to grant them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss”.