The Nigerian Army has raised the alarm that some mischief-makers are working with some foreigners to derail the democratic process in Nigeria by scuttling the May 29 inauguration of new governments at federal and state levels. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that since the return of democracy to Nigeria on May 29, 1999 after two decades of military rule, the day has become traditionally the day for the handing over and taking over ceremonies for newly elected members of the executive and legislative arms of government after every general election. The acting director,  Army Public Relations, Col Sagir Musa, who revealed the plot,  in a statement said the Army had noted with great concern the efforts of some unpatriotic individuals, groups and foreign interests determined to cause mischief and exacerbate the security situation in Nigeria. “Some of these mischievous elements thought that we would not have a safe and successful general elections but were proved wrong; hence they want to derail the scheduled handing over later this month and to scuttle the democratic process in the country,” he said He alleged that the mischief-makers are working to further induce bandits and terrorists of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) and Boko Haram with funds and other logistic support. According to him, their body language and unguarded utterances imply support for the criminal elements. “A credible source has shown that some individuals are hobnobbing with Boko Haram terrorists, while others are deliberately churning falsehood against the security agencies with a view to set the military against the people and the government.” The army spokesman added that such elements are also demoralising troops and security agencies through false accusations and fake news. “Therefore, it has become necessary to inform the public and warn such persons and groups to desist as the consequences of their actions would be calamitous to themselves and our great country,” he added. He further noted that foreign interests are also working assiduously to cause disaffection and divide the coalition Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF)  in order to give room for ISWAP terrorists and Boko Haram to resurrect their nefarious activities. He restated that the military would not relent in clearing the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists  and their sympathisers. “The Nigerian Army is a stakeholder in our national security and sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. “Additionally, we are making this statement because the military, particularly the Nigerian Army, has always been called upon to intervene in conflict situations in order to resolve crises in most cases when they get worse, while the public expect miracles,” he said, even as he restated the Army’s unalloyed loyalty to the Constitution “We are determined, more than ever before, to continue to uphold the constitution and defend the territorial integrity of this nation from both external and internal aggression,” he added. Col Musa noted that Nigeria is a sovereign country with a clearly established judicial system and enjoined all aggrieved persons and groups to take advantage of that to resolve differences amicably.  AI Urges Prosecution Of  Perpetrators  Of Boko Haram Insurgency The Amnesty International (AI) has urged the federal government to ensure that everyone that participated in inflicting pains and sufferings on innocent families in the 10- year Boko Haram insurgency in Borno and other states of the north east are prosecuted and brought  to justice. Country director, AI Office, Mrs. Osai Ojigho, made this call yesterday in Maiduguri while addressing a group called KNIFAR women who are separated from their husbands by the conflict. Ojigho said it was very imperative to bring the perpetrators of the crimes to justice. “I know that it has not been easy for particularly the people of Borno State and everyone that has been affected by Boko Haram crisis. We have lost many lives in the communities. We can reclaim lives if human rights is put in the front burner of all issues, whether at state, federal or local government level. “We have been calling for justice, justice for everyone that has suffered loss of family members, properties and livelihood; justice against those who have caused this pain, who have brought this calamity upon us. “We have been calling for an end to this insurgency, for an end to injustice and in the course of this, we discovered  how the fight against insurgency has affected family life –  women, children, fathers, uncles, grandfathers and grandmothers. The family circle is greatly affected by this insurgency. “Families are no longer together; many families do not know where their love ones are, whether dead or alive. Even those who are alive suffered calamities that will remain with them for the rest of their lives, and this is the story of KNIFAR Women. But to ensure this does not happen again, we need to put in place laws and systems that will punish those who commit these crimes. It is very important,” Ojigho stated. On his part, the executive director, Al-amin Foundation, Hajjia Alamin Hamsatu disclosed that 2,000 women separated from their husbands by the insurgency in Banki town, Bama Local Government Area, have  joined hands to demand the whereabouts of their husbands. “ We have more than 2,000  of the women. We are calling  on the authorities  to show us where our sons, husbands and fathers  from Banki, Bama town in Maiduguri are kept. These people were arrested and detained by the authorities for years.  We don’t know whether they are alive or dead. Many of their children are asking after their parents,  but we as their mothers do not have answer to this,” she said.