Coscharis Motors, the exclusive BMW dealership in Nigeria, has announced that the auto firm is set to commence placement order for the 2019 BMW X7 which is coming with a 4-year free service plan and an extended warranty The vehicle which is the first-ever BMW X7, described as the pinnacle of BMW’s X Sport Activity Vehicle line-up is built  on the class leading comfort, handling, safety and technology of all the previous BMW X Sport Activity Vehicle model lines that have been produced at Plant Spartanburg since 1999. The 2019 BMW X7 offers standard three-row seating for 7 with optional Second-row Captain’s Chairs offering a more exclusive seating arrangement for 6. Standard two-axle air suspension, 21-inch alloy wheels and advanced driver assistance systems ensure that the new BMW X7 lives up to expectations of style, driver engagement, passenger comfort and all-weather and all-terrain capability. According to a statement issued in Lagos by Coscharis Motors, for the first time, BMW customers will have the opportunity to pre-order the first-ever BMW X7 online at www.BMWUSA.com, adding that starting in mid-Oct, customers will be able to select from the dealership and complete their pre-order deposit transaction online via their mobile device or from the comfort of their home. Coscharis Motors said it will then reach out to them to finalise the options and colors of their BMW X7, stressing that customers who pre-order online will also enjoy priority vehicle production. BMW has pulled back the covers on a new definition of automotive luxury. The BMW X7 blends presence, exclusivity and spaciousness with the versatile and agile driving properties customers would expect from a BMW Sports Activity Vehicle (SAV). The newest and largest model in the BMW X line-up uses outstanding powertrain options and chassis technology, plus generous levels of space in each of its three rows of seats, to deliver unparalleled experiences for the driver and passengers. The expansive exterior dimensions of the BMW X7 take luxury to a new level. At 203.3 inches in length, 78.7 inches wide and 71.1 inches tall, and with a wheelbase of 122.2 inches, the X7 displays harmonious proportions and establishes itself as the new head of the BMW X model family. The impressive open expanse of the BMW X7 interior brings a new sensation of three rows of seats that treats the driver and passengers to an exceptional feeling of roominess within the X7’s elegantly appointed interior surroundings. Expansive surfaces and clean structures give the instrument panel a modern look and its lines flow smoothly into the door panels. Large trim surfaces framed with electroplated accents on the instrument panel and center console enhance the interior’s elegant and exclusive aura. The two passengers in the third row can settle into full-size seats that are fully capable of accommodating adult passengers over longer journeys. Comfort levels here are enhanced by an additional rear glass sunroof panel, cup holders and armrests integrated into the side panel trim. The standard second row configuration offers seating for three. Alternatively, two extremely comfortable individual Captain’s Chairs can be specified for the middle row as an option. These comfort seats offer the same range of adjustments as the seats for the driver and front passenger. The individual seats for the second row also feature integrated armrests and comfort cushions. Two second-row seats with a space between them represent a first for a BMW SAV and create an exceptionally luxurious ambience in the rear compartment. The space between the individual seats also provides an access route to the third row. The standard air suspension allows the car to be lowered (at the touch of a button in the trunk) to make loading cargo easier. The new BMW X7 features a two-section split tailgate, both elements of which have electric opening and closing as standard. The new 2019 BMW X7 launches with a choice of two updated gasoline engines. Heading up the range is the BMW X7 xDrive50i, with an extensively updated 4.4-liter V8 engine. A 3.0-liter inline six-cylinder engine, found under the hood of the new BMW X7 xDrive40i rounds out the model line-up. All engines channel their power through an eight-speed Steptronic transmission, while BMW xDrive intelligent all-wheel drive is on hand to ensure that power is transferred into secure progress – on or off road.