The Church of Nigeria Anglican Communion, Diocese of Lagos, on Monday presented a Special Episcopal Award to Governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode for his monumental achievements in all sectors and sections of the state in the last four years. Speaking while handing the award to the Governor on behalf of the Church during the first session of 34th Synod of the Diocese held at Our Saviours Church, Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), Onikan, Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, Rt Rev Humphrey Olumakaiye said the governor deserved to be appreciated for excellent performance and selfless service to God and humanity. He described Governor Ambode as an administrator with a patriotic drive who, through hard work and grace, rose to become distinguished among his peers. “We are very proud of you Governor Ambode for taking Lagos State much higher. You have proved beyond doubts that there is a great hope for a better Nigeria through your transformational touch in this state. “Today, we have decided to honour you in due recognition of your exceptional achievements as our Governor,” Olumakaiye said. The clergyman also commended Governor Ambode for always identifying with the church, saying it was an eloquent indication of his love and undying passion for God and life of humility. On his part, the immediate past Bishop of the Diocese, Most Rev Adebola Ademowo congratulated Governor Ambode for his achievements in the State in the last four years, saying his name was already written in gold. “I want to congratulate our Governor for a very successful tenure. Your name has been written in gold and I do hope that Abuja will do something,” the respected clergyman said. Responding, Governor Ambode profusely thanked residents and faith-based organizations for cooperating with his administration to maintain law and order, saying it is on record that there was no single religious conflict in the State in the last four years. The Governor said he was particularly proud of the relationship and massive support extended to him by religious leaders which, according to him, resulted in peaceful co-existence and progress of the State. 