Electricity distribution companies (DISCOs) have said a minimum of $10 billion (about N3.07trillion) investments to boost their services over the next five years. The industry stakeholders stated this at a one-day conference in Abuja held to appraise challenges in the country’s power sector yesterday. The French Agency for Development (AFD), which organised the conference, said the estimate follows a study it conducted the study with the support of the European Union (EU) on the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry’s challenges, to help resolve the problems of the sector. According to AFMercados, the consultancy firm which conducted the study under the Technical Assistance Programme, the best way out of the challenge was to evolve innovative financing solutions, possibly involving new players to invest in the sector. The report blamed the revenue shortfall on the lack of a cost reflective tariff, customer dissatisfaction and a lack of performance in the power sector, in general, resulting in a shutdown of access to finance A key finding from the study was that the sector needed more investment than interventions by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to turn the electricity market around. It also disclosed that N600 billion has been earmarked as the second tranche of CBN of Nigeria Electricity Market Stabilisation Facility (NEMSF) starting this year or by 2020. Speaking at the event the team leader of the Capacity Building and Technical Assistance Programme (CaBTAP), AF Mercados, Jose Guerra, said the study was designed to empower decision makers with reliable information on the country’s power sector. He said the study was conducted in conjunction with other development institutions involved in the power sector and witnessed how investments in the sector have been stalled since it was privatised. “This has led to the buildup of a major bottleneck, constraining ever more access to electricity for the public and the economy, driving up the costs for users who can only resort to diesel-powered generation,” AFD said. “The failed attempts at financing DISCOs by the Federal Government and its development partners to think out ways of breaking the vicious cycle starting from an initial infrastructure gap led to today’s severe liquidity crisis, with a revenue shortfall that is over $3billion.”