Julius Berger Nigeria Plc financial report for 2018 has shown an impressive performance in its revenue generation, taxes and returns to shareholders. Details of the company’s outing announced by the financial director, Mr. Martin Brack, showed that the Group’s revenue in 2018 increased by 37 per cent and profit – before- tax rose by 173 per cent, while the total comprehensive income increased by 47 per cent. Brack told the business community at the company’s Investors’ Forum in Lagos that earnings per share increased by 47 per cent, while the shareholders’ equity rose to N35 billion during the year. Also, the company’s managing director, Dr. Lars Richter, told the forum that the progress Julius Berger had made at the Second Niger Bridge reflected its continued commitment to the timely completion of the project. At the event, which has become a traditional pre-Annual General Meeting (AGM) presentation by the executive management of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, the company’s shareholders and stakeholders were presented with reports on the business activities and fortunes of the company over the 2018 business year as well as on its economic trajectory. Richter’s presentation dwelt on operational perspectives and outlook. He reviewed the business year, status of operations and outlook for 2019 and beyond. He informed the forum that 2018 was a successful and pivotal year for Julius Berger because it was filled with positive developments and achievements. In 2018, he explained, Julius Berger overcame several tough challenges faced in the recent past and made remarkable progress across all aspects of its business, leading to greater profitability and successes. The MD said that during the year, the company optimised its operational structure to ensure the best utilisation of resources for projects’ needs. A seamless succession of the executive management was implemented and its structure was expanded to include a Directorate of Corporate Development. “Strategically, the decision enabled a stronger focus on growth potential and provided an even more robust support for the identification and exploration of diversification opportunities and efforts. The result is that Julius Berger revved back from redundancy to renaissance, from the brink of sale of its equipment to investment in new machinery and technology, from firing to hiring again, with the target, to deliver on its new and increasing projects schedules,” it said.