Sad tales of how African migrants’ who take up employment in Gulf States are abused and exploited is raising a lot of concern among members of African Trade Unions. In this piece, MICHAEL OCHE, captures the ugly trend that many believe must be stopped. R ising unemployment across Africa, continues to encourage African workers to migrate to other parts of the world in a quest for better life. With Europe making entry for migrants difficult, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states are becoming the next destination. Though data is scanty due to poor documentation, recent statistics show an increase in the rate at which Africans, especially women, move to these countries, as domestic workers and house minders. Investigations revealed that recruitment agencies in Africa, after collecting exorbitant fees and charges from potential migrants, feed them with false promises that fuel their desperation. These recruitment agencies through their actions make these workers vulnerable. Checks have also shown that majority of those who end up in the GCC states are mostly young, unskilled and less educated Africans. Domestic services sector appear to engage most of the migrant workers while sectors such as construction and security are also notable areas. “There are instances, as some compiled cases have shown, of African migrants who were not lucky to get out in piece, but returned home in coffins,” a study by the Organisation of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC–Africa) the umbrella body of all Trade Unions in Africa, states. The study also raised concerns of growing cases of physical assault and battering that psychologically depresses domestic workers. Cases of rape of female African domestic workers in the GCC states, especially in Oman and Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirate, is growing, the report reveals. Even more worrisome, is that African migrants get very little support and protection from their embassies in the GCC states when suffering abuse, thus, forcing them to resolve to self–help, the study revealed African labour unions say the kafala sponsorship system that ties migrant workers to an individual sponsor for visa and employment, continues to perpetrate and exacerbate slavery and slavery-like practices in the GCC states. The United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, have been singled out as two of the worst violators of human and labour rights of African migrants, while Oman has been cited as the country with criminal and growing human trafficking and sexual exploitation, as well as slavery destination. Worried by the growing concern, African Trade Unions are tasking leaders within the continent to show more commitment in the task of promoting fair recruitment, prevention of exploitation and human trafficking and also the better defense and protection of human and labour rights of migrant workers. In Nigeria, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has been leading campaigns to sensitise workers on the need to ensure that they migrate regularly and not be subjected to deception, trafficking and forced labour. The Nigerian government also, in recognition of the importance of migration management in 2015, formally adopted the National Migration Policy. The policy provides the legal framework for monitoring and regulating internal and international migration and proper collection and dissemination of migration data. The government also has the national policy on labour migration. However, stakeholders complain of weak implementation of the policies and lack of sensitisation for potential migrants. The lead agency, the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), is poorly funded. NLC’s focal person on migration, James Eustace, urged the Nigeria government, to live up to its responsibility as a government. “The Nigerian government must live up to its responsibility as a government. It must rise to the occasion and ensure there are mechanisms in place to protect migrants, particularly migrant workers and their families. The government must ensure effective implementation of the laws that protect human and labour rights of migrants.” Coordinator, Human and Trade Union Rights with ITUC-AFRICA, Akhator Joel Odige, who has experience working with many migrant workers who suffered harsh working conditions, painted a picture of what most African migrant workers in the Gulf States go through. “African labour migrants to the GCC states are suffering horrendous, slavery-like human and labour rights abuses such as beating and verbal insults; starvation; excessive working hours and working for multiple persons and places but earning just one wage (particularly for domestic workers); delayed, underpaid and unpaid wages; lack of rest and family time (phones are seized and migrants not able to communicate with their families back home); sexual harassment; poor medical attention; torture and death.” He said labour migration creates jobs, but it can be decent jobs and made to produce a win-win situation for everyone if African governments commit to doing the right things and the kafala system is dismantled as being done by Qatar. According to Odige, for African governments, there are lots of options and measures that can be adopted to increase protection regimes for African labour migrants. “For instance, through the Colombo Process, Asian governments are improving on the better protection of their labour migrants to the GCC states. We can have an African process similar to the Colombo one and adopt progressive measures they have developed.” Fair recruitment, he said, also means migrants do not bear fees and charges when they’re recruited. He also called on African governments to invest more on skills and human development by scaling up social spending. “It is also critical that African governments consider embassy presence in destination countries and to staff them with trained and compassionate labour attaché. Where it is impossible to have embassy presence, African states can enter into partnership understanding between and amongst themselves to have one embassy assisting in handling African labour migrant cases and to do referrals where necessary. For us as organised labour, we commit to continue to monitor and report on the entire labour migration processes and bring practical suggestions to concerns observed to the attention of our governments. Lastly, we are campaigning against the Kafala system and against the abuses that African labour migrants suffer. We are doing this by targeting the worst offenders like Oman, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. It is true that migration cannot be stopped, but certainly, it can be better managed to contribute to and accelerate development.” The ITUC-AFRICA in its recommendations called for more awareness and education for potential migrants especially on the fact that laws in the GCC countries are not the same, available jobs and skills needed, rights of workers, culture and dress code.