Ten years ago, I wrote in my column in Sardauna Magazine that someday, the poor will have nothing to eat but the rich. We are in those days now when the rich are endangered species that even money and an avalanche of security shields cannot save. This is the result of long years of injustice and social inequality where the commonwealth of the people is hijacked and cornered by a few. And until we address these needless imbalance in the system, we shall continue to be greeted by the fury of our self-infested tragedies. We live in a system where security agencies that risk their lives are poorly paid, ill-equipped and no social safety package plan for when they are injured or die. The irony is that even the rich, who benefit more from the protection that these personnel give, look away from an attempt at making life meaningful and guaranteed for them. Recently, an embarrassing feat was recorded when a bill that sets aside funds for the police was passed into law! What was revealed afterwards was that funds for policing must come from public trust funds while politicians, who take the lion share of our resources get their monies directly from strategic coffers of the state. To correct this, many may argue that heads of security chiefs be sacked. But trust me, the situation will remain. For example, we have a new Inspector General of Police but that has not in any way fetched us any respite. Like Ejiwunmi opined, what we need is an overhauling of government structure because our problem in all sectors, including security, is a combination of mindset and structure of government. One way to do this is to restructure the functions of government. Those who get monthly payment from government must be made to deliver on their responsibilities. Like the local chiefs, local government authorities, community and youth leaders, layers of security personnel, governors all in the corridors where dangerous crimes are domiciled. What do they do? They look away and expect the heavens to send down angels to help with their responsibilities. Now let’s look at our legal contraption and equate it with the ugly reality poking us in the eyes. The funny reality of our time is that when kidnappers are arrested, they are taken to court and defended by lawyers. Evans, a notorious kidnapper is in the court enjoying the liberty of our judicial system. He gets the special protection of the state than his victims would get. What kind of law protects a proven criminal with all traces of guilt if not Nigerian laws? Until we punish crimes the way they should, we will be glorifying criminals and legitimising criminalities. Another looming tragedy is the rate at which our children in higher institutions are taking their own lives. In the last few months, it was reported that no less than five students have committed suicide. It started with the girl in Ahamdu Bello University, Zaria, who drank sniper to end what she called family pressure. In the same university, another student in the pharmacy ended his life last week, after failing to graduate with his mates. In the University of Port Harcourt, report is just reaching us that a girl named Hikimat Gbadomosi has ended her life. In Kogi State University, a female student committed suicide because her boyfriend dumped her. These ugly stories abound everywhere. What therefore is pushing our students to kill themselves? Kabiru Lawanti , a lecturer in the department of mass communication, Ahamdu Bello University Zaria, opined that something is fundamentally wrong with the way we raise our kids. ”I know children who changed departments without the knowledge of their parents. Others are withdrawn and continue staying in school without telling their parents. The pressure to be ‘successful’ is too heavy on their shoulders, they can’t absorb the expectation placed on them”. On her own part, Dr Rukaiya Sani Sami, of the Department of Biological Sciences, ABU Zaria added that: ”The leading causes are parental pressure and expectation of greatness from parents coupled with rushing the kids to the university at tender ages.” Adeniyi Agboola blamed kids for the burden they wrought themselves. ”The children of today are getting the bad examples. They fail to learn that failure is normal in life and everyone is failing one way or another, so failing is nothing but our attitude to failure, that’s everything. I’m yet to see that person who has not failed before, whether in school, relationship, business or politics. We all have our share of failure we must tell the children the truth and stop putting undue pressure in their lives.” Aligning with Abdullahi Halidu, modernisation with its attendant sophistication and the pursuit of success and excellence at all cost have taken its toll on family life and consequently on children and youths. We have come to redefine parenting only in terms of providing comfort for our wards and in the process, lose the core essence of parenting which includes instilling morals and values in our kids.  What this means is that youths are unable to absorb the psychological and social pressure they are constantly exposed to. And as a result, many turn to drugs and other social vices as an escapee tool. More worrisome is the menace of drug abuse amongst youths, a time bomb that’s ticking so fast. I think parenting should be redefined not only in terms of providing comfort for our wards but must be all-inclusive to equally teach morals and values, as well as entrepreneurship and coping skills to prepare young ones to be able to absorb societal pressures that will abound. May God help our generation. 