Former President Olusegun Obasanjo yesterday narrated his close shave with death while on board an Ethiopian Airline flight that almost crashed on Wednesday at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos. The aircraft, Boeing 777-300, carrying Obasanjo and other 393 passengers nearly crashed while attempting to land before the pilot took off again. It successfully landed after hovering on the airspace for another 10 minutes. According to Premium Times, Obasanjo whose aide earlier claimed was not in the plane, said that ”I remained calm and read papers while the scary situation occurred.” The news medium quoted the former president as saying: “While it all happened, I was reading my papers. One man, who was next to me, said, ‘Oga you no worry?’ I said, ‘if I worry, what will I do? If you are on a plane and you have a situation like this, why should you worry?’ I left everything in the hands of God.” He was returning from a stakeholders’ dialogue on the continental trade and implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCFTA) which ended on Tuesday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Obasanjo continued: “I was on Ethiopian Airline. The pilot thought he could land. And he landed. He touched down. But I think he took a swift decision that he had to take off again. “So, he took off. If he did not, I think he probably would have overrun the runway. He then apologised and said he would try to land again. He tried again, and we landed safely. And we all clapped,” he said. According to him, the pilot first landed the plane at about 12:20 p.m. before the incident, but finally landed safely on return at 12:30 p.m. Another account stated that the incident was caused by rain and heavy wind which made the plane to do a slight touch down on the third touchline, instead of the first touchline of the runway. The aircraft departed the Bole International Airport, Addis Ababa, at about 9.10 am, Ethiopian time; 7 am, Nigerian time. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), who was among the passengers, first broke the news. The journalist was quoted as saying that the almost five-hour flight from the Ethiopian capital to Lagos was smooth until the pilot attempted to land at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport. The passenger said that on realising the unsavoury scenario, the pilot quickly manoeuvred the plane back on air, flying out of the Lagos airport. After hovering around between Lagos and parts of Ogun State, which caused panic among passengers and crew members, the plane landed in Lagos airport, some 20 minutes after the initial false landing, the reporter said The atmosphere in the air bus upon landing was replica of what is obtainable in some Nigerian worship centres, as many passengers broke out into praises of God and clapping, while others fell on their knees in prayer. The duty manager and chief customer service (Nigeria) of the airline, Mr. Otori Jimoh Otan, told journalists that if the pilot had continued taxing down, after landing on the third touchline, he would have overshot the runway. “But this is an experienced pilot. He realised this immediately. Fortunately, the distance between when he realised the situation still permitted him to take off and renegotiate landing,” Otori said. He added that the incident was not out of place, while confirming that the wind obscured the pilot’s vision. Otori also disclosed that most of the aircraft that flew out of the Murtala Mohammed International Airport had to fly against the mid-day heavy wind. “These things happen. That is where the sophistication of the aircraft and the experience of the cabin crew members come in. The aircraft is one of the best you can have around and we are fortunate to have pilots who know their onions”, he said. However, in an official statement signed by the general manager of Ethiopian Airlines in Nigeria,  Firihiewot Mekonnen, the organisation stated that Ethiopian Flight (ET 901/29 MAY) which departed from Addis Ababa on its way to Lagos had encountered bad weather during landing and made a go-around the airport for better and smooth landing, according to the procedure. The statement added that “on a second attempt, it made a safe and normal landing. According to safety standard, pilots are encouraged to make a similar go-around in such cases. However, some media incorrectly reported this standard safety precautionary go-around.” Some of the passengers in the aircraft included the director-general of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, the director of ports inspection, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) Prof Samson Tunde Adebayo and 390 others. Confirming the incident, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) in a statement, said that “an Ethiopian Airline flight numbered ET 901 flying from Addis Ababa to Lagos today landed safely at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos. “The flight, which tried to land at about 1157hours had earlier misapproached due to bad weather and immediately went up to position properly for landing,” FAAN’s general manager, Corporate Affairs, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu said. She added that “the aircraft landed safely at exactly 1213hours and parked at gate E63. The Ethiopian flight had departed Lagos for Addis Ababa at 1351hours.”   