Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha has said that the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport is ready and will be commissioned in the second week of May, stating that the idea behind the project was to connect the State to the rest of the world and boost her economy. Also, the managing director and chief executive of Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN), Engr. Saleh Dunoma has described the Imo International Cargo Airport as the largest in the country, adding that the feat was an indelible achievement of Governor Okorocha’s administration to the growth of Aviation in the State. The governor had met with the director of Commercial and Development of FAAN, Sadiku Abdulkadir Rafindadi and his entourage at the Government House Owerri on Tuesday, where he presented a letter from the MD/CE to the governor. He said: “I want to thank the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for giving us the permission to build this International Tarmac for the take-off of the International Cargo Airport which will enable goods to come from all parts of this world into Imo State and will equally help us take our agric products from this country to the rest of the world. “The idea of building the International Cargo Airport is to connect Imo State to the rest of the world. We are happy that this project has become a reality and we are waiting for the kind approval of the President to commission the project. When fully commissioned, it will increase and improve the commercial and economic activities of the people here”. He added “This is the biggest Cargo Airport in Nigeria and I am happy you have confirmed it. We are very happy to handover this legacy to  the incoming government and our generation yet unborn. Imo State government will extend the existing runway as you requested to enable the Boeing 737 and other big Cargo aircrafts to land safely”. “Most of the big importers in Nigeria come from the South-East and so this will help them in their businesses greatly. We are happy that this project has become a reality and we are hoping that in the next 10 days, this project will be commissioned and be made for public use”. In his speech, while presenting the MD’s letter to the governor, Mr. Rafindadi Stated, “We thank you for your vision and leadership to construct an International Cargo Airport for your people.’’