Oil and Gas Stakeholders under the aegis of Bayelsa State Waterways Oil and Gas Marketers Association of Nigeria (WOGMAN) yestetday said they have developed a framework that would help reduce unemployment and increase the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of Bayelsa State by 90 per cent at the end of 2019.  The State Chairman of WOGMAN, Mr. Progress Kemebigha, said though security agencies and local surveilance contractors have done noble in tackling issues of illegal oil bunkering, the proposed framework would help create 200 jobs anually to help tackle issues of unemployment in the State.  Giving insight into the potentials of the waterways oil and gas sector of the economy, Kemebigha, said State stands to gain more if modern approaches are used to engage youths in the sector as key stakeholders and marketers.  Explaining further, he said “rather than let unemployed youths in the State to continue to lament in the midst of plenty, one basic thing we would do is to train and register them with major oil and gas marketers, so that they can become independent marketers.”  He averred that one the ideas behind this new framework is to also help tackle issues such crude oil theft and illegal refining that has plagued the Nation’s economy for many decades.  He further said that the plan of the Association is to place Bayelsa in the world’s map as a key player in the Oil and Gas Sector as well as help boost the Internally Generated Revenue of the State.  “We would take the State back to the days when people in riverine areas enjoyed the services of floating filling stations and petroleum products were easily accessed at official pump price.  “As we all know, this brought succor to rural dwellers especially those leaving along the waterways of the State. Once we create jobs and make transportation of goods and services cheaper, we would have more people willing to pay tax.  “This no doubt would boost the Internally Generated Revenue of the State and help reduce poverty amongst rural dwellers across coastal communities in Bayelsa State.” He said.  