The executive secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Hassan Bello has revealed that about 24,000 direct jobs would be created when the Kaduna Dry ports links to Niger Republic and Chad. Bello, who stated this at the flag-off of the Cargo delivery by rail to the Kaduna Dry Inland Ports in Kaduna, said “about 24,000 direct jobs would be created from this project, if we are able to connect Niger Republic and Chad to use the port as destination port for their cargo, it would have a multiplier effect for Kaduna and its environs. “We will then be able to decongest the port in Apapa and Tincan Island and we won’t be having the gridlock we are experiencing now.” Speaking on the efficiency of the rail line, the Shippers’ council boss said movement of containers from Lagos to Kaduna would take two days and each trip would bring in 20 to 24 containers. According to him, “it would take two days for the train to arrive from Lagos to Kaduna because are using the old track, but we are improving and the movement must improve. Today we have about 24 wagons and they are bringing about 24 container on each trip. ” It would be two trips  per week and they would also take laden containers back to Lagos. If it cost N700,000 to bring 20ft container to Kaduna from Lagos by road, it could be 40 percent to 50 percent less by rail. “Rail really will determine the cost of transportation that would bring down the cost of production and by this there would be no inflation in Kaduna and its environs, because shipping has come to Kaduna.” While speaking at the function, Kaduna state governor, Nasir el-Rufai said “it is a happy day for me as the governor of Kaduna state and I am sure it is also a happy day for all northern businessmen and women because with the commissioning of the dry port last year and with this shipment, transportation of goods from the port, containers from the seaports in Lagos to Kaduna by rail has confirmed that our inland dry port is functioning and you can ship your goods direct from Kaduna to any part of the world and you can also import goods from any part of the world direct to Kaduna without your containers or any of your goods being opened up for inspection in Lagos. “This is a major achievement which has been made possible through the efforts of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers Council. We are very grateful today’s event has opened a new vista of commercial opportunities not only for Northern businessmen but even for our neighbouring countries.” On expanding and plans for maximising the port, the governor said “I intend to send a delegation to the Republic of Niger to sensitize the government of that country of the opportunities of receiving their goods in Kaduna instead of Lagos and having to truck them as well as any of their exports from Kaduna port to any part of the world. “This is a great opportunity; it will create jobs for our young people, it will expand business opportunities and also lower the cost of doing business for our business men here in Nigeria as well as lower the cost of agricultural products in southern Nigeria.  So, it is a great day. I am very happy ” Our investment promotion agency will go on drive to attract investors that will put up warehouses, cold stores and Port facilities that will facilitate imports and exports from Kaduna Inland Dry Port. We are committed to this and the state government will go whatever we can by way of support to ensure that this inland dry port is a remarkable success.”