Indications have emerged that lawmakers elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have perfected a new strategy to frustrate the emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan and Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila as President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively, in the 9th National Assembly. Sources close to a ranking senator of the PDP told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the latest strategy involves whipping up sentiment against the national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who is perceived as the main driver of the zoning of the posts to these two ranking lawmakers. The idea, it was learnt, is to cause disaffection among the populace by presenting the endorsed candidates as lackeys of Tinubu, who is widely speculated to have a presidential ambition in 2023 and may be planning to use the two leaders of the National Assembly to his advantage, if they win. The source said, “‘Expect a heightening of anti-Tinubu social media blitz from this week,” noting that the social media is already awash with such sentiment projecting Tinubu as ‘greedy” having singlehandedly installed the vice president, Prof, Yemi Osinbajo, and now wants to install Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives, meaning he has provided three of the four topmost positions in the country. Among the fliers doing the rounds in the social media is one that has the picture of Osinbajo atop the image of President Buhari and flanked by Senator Lawan on the left and Gbajabiamila on the right, with the caption, “The shape of New Nigeria.” And beneath the name of all these leaders is inscribed ‘TINUBU’. It was gathered that a cocktail of cartoons, fliers and commentaries will flood all known social media platforms pillorying the erstwhile governor of Lagos State and a pillar in the formation of APC, which brought Buhari to office. Tinubu had recently stated that he has no ulterior motive for supporting the preferred choices of the APC for the National Assembly top jobs. In his reaction, however, the Senate minority leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi, distanced PDP lawmakers from the alleged smear campaign plot. Olujimi, who is the leader of the opposition in the upper chamber, stressed that PDP lawmakers would not engage in such campaign, noting that the party has a firm control of its members. “Where is the campaign from? What is the campaign about, because I don’t know. I am the minority leader, so if I don’t know, then I don’t know where the campaign is from,” she said. “Lawan is still the Senate Leader. Don’t let anybody start telling you any funny story. He is still the Senate Leader, and nobody – except people outside and I don’t know about them – but nobody in the PDP will do it. We have good control over our members,” she stressed.