Former President Goodluck Jonathan led other dignitaries to pay glowing tributes to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, his former boss, who died nine years ago. Yar’Adua died on from a terminal ailment on May 5, 2010. Jonathan who was his Vice President assumed office afterwards. But Jonathan, in a message on Twitter, described Yar’Adua as a true servant leader who used the opportunity he had in public service to build bridges of love, foster unity and give hope to Nigerians. The former president said, “Today, I remember and celebrate him for the works that he had done. Peace he lived for and homes of peace he built. Democracy he loved and democracy he nurtured. We will always remember you for your service. A servant leader truly you remain. “He used the opportunity he had in public service to build bridges of love, foster unity and give hope to Nigerians. “President Yar’Adua was a man of integrity with a humble spirit who always took upon himself the burden of national reconciliation, peace-building, and democratic consolidation. “On this day nine years ago I lost a friend, colleague, brother, and boss, President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. He was a selfless leader who placed national interest above personal and ethnic gains.” On his part, former Vice President Atiku Abukakar, said Nigeria lost a man of peace and a leader with a vision in the person of President Umaru Musa Yar’adua. In a personally signed statement, he said, “The late President Yar’adua was a man I was closely connected to. First, because his late brother, the great Tafida of Katsina, Shehu Musa Yar’Adua, was my political mentor who taught both myself and Umaru, the ropes in politics. “Obviously, with Umaru, the apple did not fall far from the tree. “And secondly, because we worked very, very closely when he was the Governor of Katsina State at the time I was Vice President to our leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo. “In this period where Nigeria is facing almost unprecedented violence and insecurity, the world will remember that it was President Yar’Adua who bequeathed peace to the Niger Delta through his futuristic and visionary amnesty and rehabilitation programme. “That single action saw an unprecedented improvement in the performance of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry which led to record-breaking 5% GDP growth. “Beyond that, Umaru Musa Yar’adua was an advocate and proponent of the Rule of Law and the doctrine of Separation of Powers. His was the only administration that did not suffer from Executive-Legislative tensions in this Fourth Republic. “I am proud of what he achieved and the fact that such a decent leader was produced by my political family (the Yar’adua political family) and my political party (the Peoples Democratic Party). “May the Almighty Allah continue to shine His Noor (Light) on the face of our late dear President Umaru Yar’Adua as we mark 9 years of his passing and may Allah (SWT) grant him al-Jannah Firdaus. “I also pray that God continues to bless the family he left behind. A grateful nation appreciates the labours of their beloved son almost a decade after his passing.” Also, Senate President, Bukola Saraki, in a message on Twitter, described Yar’Adua as a selfless statesman, who has a legacy of integrity. He said, “Today, I remember the selfless statesman, former President Umaru Musa Yar’adua, who passed on 9-years ago. His legacy of integrity as a great leader will always remain indelible in our hearts. May the mercy of Almighty Allah (SWT) continue to be upon him. Amin.”