The Nigerian Army has extended its military operations to states sharing boundaries with Zamfara State to intercept dislodged bandits fleeing the troops’ onslaught. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen Tukur Buratai, disclosed this at a media briefing yesterday in Abuja. The army chief, who was represented by the Chief of Training and Operations, Nigerian Army, Maj Gen Lamidi Adeosun,  remarked that Exercise Harbin Kunama III, which was launched on April 1, 2019, had yielded tremendous results. He disclosed that many bandits and criminal elements were intercepted and scores of insurgents crushed in the course of the military operation. The COAS thanked traditional rulers in the region for their cooperation even as he urged them to encourage their followers and subjects to support the troops towards a successful exercise. ” I equally want to appreciate all other security agencies for their cooperation since the launch of Exercise Harbin Kunama III,” he said. Gen Buratai reiterated the commitment of the Nigerian Army to sustain existing synergy with the media while urging members of the public to cooperate with security agencies to fight crime. He revealed that a joint military operation would be launched to prevent the fleeing bandits migrating to other safer havens within the region. LEADERSHIP Weekend can authoritatively report that the recent onslaught on bandits operating in Zamfara State has continued to heighten security challenges in states that border Zamfara, like Kebbi, Katsina and even Kaduna. In Sokoto, for instance, no fewer than 50 innocent villagers have been killed in the villages of Rabah local government  that borders Zamfara State. The bandits flee the superior firepower of the Nigerian security into taking refuge outside Zamfara State. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend on what needs to be done to curtail  these excesses, a local hunter said the governors of north western states need to meet,  agree and completely ban the sale of petrol in cans by black marketers. Meanwhile, they are also of the opinion that rather than the attitude of calling them bandits,  the federal government should come up and admit the truth by calling a spade a spade. “These people are not bandits. They are trained terrorists operating within our localities freely. They carry sophisticated weapons, kill,  kidnap and collect ransom at will”. Speaking on the ugly development, the secretary to Zamfara state government, Prof Abdullahi Shinkafi,  said no fewer than 500 villages had so far been attacked and displaced, adding that  over 13000 hectares of farmland had been destroyed, over 7000 persons  killed leading to over 8000 widows and 14,000  orphans as well as another 10,000 suffering perennial or permanent injuries because of bandits’ activities. He further disclosed that the bandits tormenting the region were over 10,000 . Collaborating the SSG’s position,  Zamfara State Emergency Management Agency, disclosed that the state had over 37 IDPs camps containing 4,634 males, 9,269 females and 23, 172 children as a result of bandits’ activities. ZEMA also confirmed that from  November 2018 to date, over 350 people have been kidnapped in Zamfara State with ransom worth millions of naira paid to secure their release. LEADERSHIP Weekend reports that  the recent onslaught against the bandits in Zamfara by the Nigerian Army has forced them to flee to neighbouring states like Kebbi where they have struck in  Danko Wasagu local government area that borders Zamfara State. Kebbi State police commissioner , CP Garba Muhammad Danjuma during the launch of operation ‘Puff Adder’ in Kebbi State to stamp out armed banditry and other criminal elements, also said that the bandits may have infiltrated the state from Zamfara and other states like Sokoto. According to the Police Commissioner, the concerted efforts of security operatives in Zamfara made the criminals to flee. He said,  “The ongoing Operation Puff Adder in Zamfara, Sokoto and Niger Republic borders forced the bandits to flee and infiltrate into the villages in Arewa, Fakai, Jega, Maiyama, Koko, Zuru and Danko Wasagu local government areas of Kebbi State,” he said. The activities of the bandits around these places have threatened food security in the area. The secretary of All Farmers Association (AFAN), in Kebbi, Alhaji Muhammadu Idris recently told newsmen in Birnin Kebbi that over 350 farmers in the state have been affected by activities of bandits in Kebbi State. He said banditry had affected not only farmers but cattle rearers in the state. “Over 350 farmers have been affected by as a result of banditry in Danko Wasagu, Argungu Yauri,Ngaski, Zuru and Birnin Kebbi. Our members especially rice farmers in those areas have stopped going to their farms for fear of being kidnapped or killed by the bandits”, he lamented. Bandits terrorise 6 villages, abduct 10 in Niger As combined security operations continue to battle bandits in Zamfara and Birnin Gwari in Kaduna State,  they terrorists have continued to terrorise villages in neighbouring  Kotokoro District of Mariga local government area of Niger State where they attacked no fewer than six villages in three days. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that in the multiple attacks on the villages along Wamba, Galma, and  Gulumi Boka, all in Mariga LGAs, no fewer than 10 people were abducted. It was gathered that the villagers are taking refuge not only at the headquarters, Bangi, but in neighbouring Magama, Rijau and Kontagoral local government areas. Sources revealed that the effort of the local vigilantes and few security men around did not stop the  bandits and kidnappers who also rustled cattle and sheep  in  the villages. A source from the village  said, “They always find a way of attacking  our villages even with security men,  indicating that they monitor them. We don’t have any option but to move.” Another source revealed that two Chinese experts working on rural road from Kwana Bobi to Bobi,  awarded by Rural Access Mobility Project (RAMP)  in  the same Mariga LGA had earlier been abducted by bandits who are demanding N400 million ransom. When asked, the Police Public Relations Officer in charge of Niger State command,  Abubakar Dan Inna,  had earlier in the week confirmed that the movement of people from Mariga axis was due to the combined operations of police and vigilante but refused to confirm the abduction of the Chinese experts working on the roads. A source however disclosed that the issue is being treated discreetly because of its diplomatic implication on the state government. Bandits Unleash Violence, killings On 8 LGAs In Katsina The activities of bandits and the resultant horrifying death toll and kidnapping in the eight frontline local government areas in Katsina State bordering Zamfara State have forced thousands of villagers in the affected areas to flee their homes. The local government areas include Jibiya, Batsari, Safana, Danmusa, Kankara, Faskari, Dandume and Sabuwa. The spokesman of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Umar Mohammed, confirmed that no fewer than 2884 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) from Yar’ Santa and Tsamiyyar Jino villages and surrounding communities in Kankara LGA have taken refuge in the IDP camp in Kankara Town following attacks on the two villages in the past two weeks. Mohammed also said the new IDPs camp opened in Safana Town on Thursday, 4 th April, 2019, recorded no fewer than 436 households that evening, adding the figure was expected to rise given that over 436 households had reportedly left Gobirawa, Gozawa, Shakafito, Alhazawa and Gora villages over the spate of killing and kidnapping in Safana Local Government Area. LEADERSHIP Weekend however learnt that more than 80% of the IDPs in the state were sheltered by their friends and relatives in different communities and that development accounted for only two official IDPS camps in the state. The spokesman of the Katsina State Police Command, Isah Gambo, a Superintendent of Police (SP), declined comments of these figures, saying only the force spokesman, Mr. Frank Ubah, could speak on the number of victims kidnapped or killed in the recent security onslaught. Banditry :  FG Delegation Meets Miyyeti Allah The minister of Internal Affairs, General Abdulrahman Danbazau, the inspector general of police and other top government officials were in Birnin Kebbi on the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari to dialogue with Fulani leaders  on how to end banditry in the country. Briefing journalists after the closed-door meeting, Acting Inspector General of Police, Muhammad Adamu said the Nigeria Police and Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) had agreed to work together towards stemming armed banditry in Nigeria. “They have agreed to work with us in our efforts to flush out bandits in Kebbi State. We have talked together and they have agreed to work with us. They said those bandits in the bush – not all are of Fulani extraction. So they are ready to work with us to flush out the bandits in the bush”. He said the essence of the meeting was to dialogue with Fulani leaders and hear  from them and their challenges. “We will take measures to dialogue with the bandits to become better citizens but if that fails we will deal with them,”  the IGP said. Earlier, the Internal Affairs Minister, Danbazzau and Kebbi Stae Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu had said the presidential delegation was in Kebbi in pursuit of President Muhammadu Buhari’s  all inclusive policy to dialogue with Fulani leadership on the issue of bandits in the northern states. On his part, the National President of MACBAN, Alhaji Mohammed Kiruwu, said that the meeting would serve as the foundation that would bring peace between herdsmen and farmers as well promote peace and unity in the country. IGP Special Squad, SARS storm Katsina to rescue abducted Monarch As part of moves to rescue the Magajin Garin Daura who was abducted on Wednesday, a special police team comprising the the IGP Tactical Squad, SARS teams, Police Mobile Force and counter terrorism units have already been dispatched to Daura in Katsina State, LEADERSHIP Weekend has learnt. Meanwhile, the police has also said the kidnappers were yet to contact the family members contrary to reports in some section of the press. It would be recalled that the traditional ruler of Daura Township was abducted on Wednesday, April 1, 2019, at about 7:10pm by unknown bandits numbering about six, who stormed his residence in a light blue 405 Peugeot and abducted him while sitting outside his house after performing Maghrib prayer. The spokesman of the state police command, Isah Gambo, a Superintendent of Police (SP), who confirmed this yesterday to LEADERSHIP Weekend while giving an update on the abduction saga, said the command and other security agencies had intensified effort to rescue and re-unite the senior member of Daura Emirate Council with his family. He said: “Since the abduction, we have been in Daura investigating (the incident) but a not a single call was made (by the bandits to Uba’s family) but somebody in Katsina or Abuja will fabricate lies misleading the general public.” Gambo also spurned the alleged arrest of some of the suspected kidnapers of the traditional ruler, saying no arrest had been made so far but “police patrol teams at Kusada Division, Katsina State, intercepted the hoodlums and engaged them in a gun duel, as a result of which one Inspector Muntari Maikudi attached to the division sustained a gunshot injury and was rushed to Federal Medical Centre, Katsina, for treatment.”