The recent barricade of the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Airport Road, Abuja, by the indigenous Gbagyi people of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, must not be dismissed with a mere wave of the hand. It will not be the first time indigenes of the nation’s capital will be staging a protest of that kind. The one that is the subject of this discourse was triggered by what they term the ‘forceful occupation’ of their aboriginal space by the military.’ The recent dissent, however, was so well-timed as to command the attention of no less a personality than Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who was compelled to disembark from his car to address the protesters as his official convoy ran into them. On the surface, the issue has to do with the alleged forceful takeover of what they perceive as their ancestral land by the military. But there may be residual issues requiring urgent, holistic official attention. We recall that on October 20, 2015, the Gbagyis took to the streets of the FCT to register their disaffection over their non-inclusion in the federal executive council. The matter was heard by the Court of Appeal January 15, 2018 and Justice Komolafe delivered judgement to the effect that ‘FCT natives are entitled to ministerial representation in the Federal Executive Council as provided for by the combined provisions of Sections 147, 299, 14 (3), and 42 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended.’ Yet another protest by the FCT Gbagyi people on March 26, 2018, was in reaction to the demolition of the Gwoza Market in Gwoza village, abutting the Airport Road. The road was sealed, just as vehicles were vandalised and commuters injured. While the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai has countered that the Nigerian Army legally acquired its landed properties in Abuja in some instances as far back as 1979 following the proclamation of Abuja as the new seat of federal administration, the fact remains that the recurring agitations and protests cannot be brushed aside. In our opinion, the parcel of land in question and the fight over who owns it is obviously part of an effort by the people to draw attention to a more fundamental issue that has to do with the place of the Gbagyi people in the scheme of things in the FCT. It is imperative to state that the Gbagyis of the FCT are bonafide constituents of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with rights and privileges as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. While the status of the original traditional domain of the Gbagyis has since metamorphosed into what is known today as FCT, they must not be uprooted and dislocated from their homeland without adequate palliatives and alternatives. The FCT is ranked the seventh largest geopolitical entity in Nigeria, which implies that there is availability of ample land area for continuing development and resettlement of displaced and disaffected indigenes. Away from the cosmetic opening up of new areas and districts within the FCT which have merely spawned modern day slums and ghettos in the absence of planned, proper and enduring infrastructure, government must prioritise the provision of well laid out sites and sustainable services for communities affected by activities arising from the government’s developmental efforts. Where the Public Private Partnerships, PPP, are being considered and implemented, Memoranda of Understanding, MoU, must be explicit in protecting the vulnerable. It is also our view that the federal government may equally do well to accommodate the Gbagyis in the national scheme of things at the highest levels of executive representation in obedience to the judicial pronouncement of January 2019. In making this possible, the government must not disregard the agrarian lifestyle of the people. For most of them, farming is the only vocation the have come to know. It is, in a manner of speaking, their life. We are certain that they are appreciative of the fact that FCT being what it is today, has made it possible for them to see the other side of existence that modernity makes real. Even at that, it is pertinent, in the opinion of this newspaper that the authorities understand that this does not entail the violation of long time habits that have served the people so well. Agriculture is an inextricable part of their worldview and is paramount when the other aspects of their culture and tradition are put together. These must be made to blend seamlessly with modernity. However, having made this point, we urge the Gbagyis to follow due process in pursuing what they see as their rights. Blocking the highways is primitive as their intentions may be misconstrued. They have representatives in the federal legislature who are in a position to follow their case legally and much more forcefully.