Abdullahi Gana Muhammad is the Commandant–General of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC). In this interview with RUTH CHOJI, he avers that the 2019 general elections was peaceful. He also speaks on some topical national issues. What are the lessons your agency learnt from the recently concluded general elections? As you are aware, the police is the lead agency in security. We worked with the police and the new Inspector-General of Police, Abdullahi Adamu, to ensure hitch-free elections. We achieved more when there is synergy among us. So, I will say that we did well during the elections. It was 90% peaceful. I have learnt some lessons especially when we went to places like Mararraba in Nasarawa state during the elections, Nigerians have become more enlightened politically, they are conscious of their rights because as early as 8am, there was a large voters turnout, they were waiting to exercise their franchise.  Is there anything that can be done to ensure that we have total hitch-free elections in future because there were pockets of violence in some states during the 2019 elections? We worked together as a family especially the Police and Civil Defense. We will achieve more if we have more security men because some of the polling units we went to, you will see just two or one security personnel. We need more to man the polling booths in the future. The efforts made by the government was a huge success because it further strengthened the unity among the agencies. We worked together and also trained together to ensure that we have  successful elections. Earlier you mentioned synergy between your agency and the Police but some policemen allegedly killed an NSCDC officer recently and Nigerians were surprised when a senior officer from the Corps said it was an act of God… I’m not sure my officer said it was an act of God. I think he was misquoted, but I want to use this opportunity to appreciate the IGP and the DIG (Operations), who called me immediately after the incident and assured me that justice will be done. The IGP said, if it’s true that it is an officer of the police that killed my staff, he will be dealt with. I was happy that the IGP himself ordered for an investigation. The officers have been dismissed and charged to court. Right now he is in Kuje prison, awaiting trial. So, I give kudos to the IGP because he showed so much concern.  Recently, the Supreme Court upheld the ruling of a lower court directing the Corps to reinstate 181 personnel that were unjustly sacked. What action has the Corps taken so far? What happened is that those are issues that I inherited. The problem had to do with recruitment and when the former C-G realised that they were fake, he ordered for their sack but you know this pension was still going because it was deducted from salaries. So after taking their salaries, the pension were still there. Some of them used that against the corps and went to court. We will respect the rule of law. I have already informed my Board, which is in charge of recruitment, I have told them everything and they are working on it. The court awarded them N1.2bn. We don’t have the money, so we made a special case to the Board to see what can be done. Still on your personnel, there were also reports that an officer of the Corps accidentally opened fire on innocent people in Lagos… Yes that was one case that really bothered me. This is one officer that was just back from leave and when I saw the video clip, I was surprised. So for this, I have ordered for a psychological analysis of personnel involved. A committee had sat on the officer’s case, he has been dismissed and has been handed over to the police for prosecution.  I learnt that a Chinese man was among the victims that were shot by the officer. An autopsy has been done on the dead and other victims, we will see when it comes out. So, many people have been dismissed, who committered offence that led to loss of lives. We don’t take things for granted.  Another of your officer ran over some Boys Brigade in Gombe during the Easter procession and some have attributed religious indifference to the incident. What is your take on this? It was an accident and he happened to be our officer with a policemen and a civilian in the car. They were coming back from a normal outing. We all know that these young Boys Brigade go round when they are parading, they block one lane of the road for them. So I don’t know what went wrong or how he missed it and hit them but I was told his brakes failed, so he couldn’t control the car and mistakenly hit the procession. Naturally when such things happen, mob action is the next thing you hear and that was why you heard of the tension and crises that erupted immediately after the accident. But I sent a strong delegation through my DCG who went there, visited the families of the bereaved, spoke with religious leaders and the deputy governor. He apologised on our behalf. Some Nigerians read religious undertone into it, but it was just an accident and it could have happen to anybody.  If you are asked to quantify how much it will cost Nigeria to make the Civil Defense meet up with global standard, how much are we lookinng at? I was once with the Minister of Civil Defense in Russia and we went on tour of their Civil Defense facilities all over the country and what I saw on ground showed, we have a long way to go. For instance, Civil Defense in Russia has a whole ministry and a minister dedicated to it. There is also a university and the equipment they have is something else. Civil Defense has been in existence for more than 70 years while we just converted our own to a para-military about 13 years ago.  How miuch do wee need to revatilise Civil defense? That is a problem we have but my minister has given me a listening ear and he has written to the president on the need to get more hands. The Civil defense will start guarding mining sites, guide and the propose ranches that the FG will established for grazing because The minister of Agriculture met my minister and said they are proposing creating ranches all over the country and they will need my men to protect these ranches, and also farmers. We are also talking with the minister of Water Resources on the need to protect all our dams. Already, we have deployed our men to go and Man one hundred and eighty (180) dams. The railway has just contacted us that we should go and protect their installations in 22 states’ railway stations. Now I am deploying five thousand of our men with the police to go and secure liberated places in the north/east. So I need more man power. 