On Friday May 17, 2019, Plateau State governor Simon Lalong emerged as chairman of Northern States Governors Forum to replace outgoing Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State. Lalong, who was elected at the Forum’s meeting at the Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House, Kaduna, promised not to betray the trust reposed in him by his colleagues from the North and to work hard to improve on the situation of the region and its people. Specifically, speaking after his appointment, Lalong said, “I’m indebted to Northern States Governors Forum for the honour of electing me as the new chairman. I’m hopeful that with the caliber of people here, experienced colleagues and those coming in, the sky would be our limit. I thank them for the trust they have in me and I hope not to betray the trust”. But according to an Abuja based legal practitioner, Barr. Alasa Ismail, “the first test of commitment by Governor Lalong and his colleagues to the protection of interest of the region and by extension, that of the entire Nigeria is by ensuring a peaceful inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly, as well as the peaceful election of leaders for the forthcoming Federal Lawmakers”. While hosting state governors and senators-elect of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to a dinner at the Presidential Villa, Abuja in the night of Monday March 25, 2019, APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole told the gathering that Senator Ahmed Lawan has been endorsed as the 9th senate president. This is just as he announced the endorsement of Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker for the 9th House of Representatives, at another forum. Oshiomhole and former Lagos state governor, Bola Tinubu, it was gathered have mandated newly elected senators and House of Representatives members to go in line with the ‘decision’ of party leadership. This is just as a senator who craved anonymity observed that since these proposed impositions and pronouncements were made, it has been an uneasy calm amongst the APC elected senators and Reps members, creating uncertainty and anticipations of ominous curse befalling the ruling party in the election of the 9th National Assembly on its inauguration day. “What makes the situation increasingly worrisome is President Muhammadu Buhari’s position which is neither visible nor invisible as his name is being dropped by Oshiomhole, Tinubu, Lawal and Gbajabiamila to push through their interests, while the President continues to look the other way. So, many stakeholders especially the elected lawmakers would have preferred, at least he distances himself from those dropping his name here and there’’, the senator said. Barr. Ismail averred that “the 19 northern governors which Governor Lalong is privileged to lead cannot afford also to look the other way while the build up to the 9th National Assembly leadership is becoming unruly, simply because a single member of the party wants to hijack all the power-levers of President Buhari administration’’. Meanwhile, the Borno elders on the platform of Concerned Borno Citizens have recently warned that some dark forces were seriously working on plot to hijack the leadership of the ninth National Assembly for their selfish political gains, which they said if allowed would be highly counter-productive to the policies of the Buhari Presidency in the second term. The group said this in a statement signed by its  leader, Alhaji Yakubu Umar, urged President Buhari to remain with former Senate leader, Mohammed Ali Ndume and ensure that he succeeds as President of the 9th Senate. According to Umar, “It is politically unhealthy, and anywhere, especially in a democratic setting for one man to produce vice president, national party chairman, ministers of information, works and housing, finance (who later resigned), FIRS chairman, several state governors, senators and Reps members; and upon all that allow the privilege of producing the senate president and speaker of the House of Representatives. How will such a nation’s men and women go to sleep with all their eyes closed? The nation is not safe with such development, because there’s nothing anybody can do if he asks the speaker and senate president to dispense with the president (the C-in-C)’’. This is just as the APC Northeast Zonal Youth Wing called on the northern governors to rise up to the occasion to halt imminent situation whereby power is handed cock and barrel to one man at the expense of the interest of the north. In a statement read by the Youths’ secretary, Abubakar Maigari, “the north is economically barren, while the south west controls the economy of the country. There is no negotiation, the north didn’t go into war with any region in the recent time to warrant surrendering our patrimony to that region’s leader after suffering a defeat. The youths said in part, “Borno state gave President Buhari and the party over 90% of the votes during the presidential election. We polled over 300,000 votes from Ndume’s senatorial district alone. Total votes with which President Buhari won in the entire 6 states of the southwest was just about 200,000 votes, which is far less than what Ndume’s constituency alone recorded. “This was just as the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole failed to deliver his Edo state on all grounds, with the opposition gaining more grounds day after the other in his state” . It further added that: “The northern governors must not allow other actors that even worked harder or polled greater result for the ruling party’s success at the last presidential election be sacrificed on the altar of ‘party position’ the President is deemed to be a head. “History shall be very sad with Governor Lalong if such looming odd happens, notwithstanding that he assumed leadership of the forum barely a month to National Assembly leadership election. “Governor Lalong who was a Speaker of Plateau state House of Assembly from October 2000 to 2006 has remained the longest serving speaker of the House in the history of Plateau State; and therefore has ample experience to arrest the emerging situation in the 9th National Assembly. “We are not saying power should not shift to southwest or any other region in 2023 or thereafter, but you would be at disadvantage and would have lost all the bargaining positions if at this juncture the vital political structure of Buhari’s administration is trusted in the hand of Tinubu alone”. Of a fact, the influence of governors cannot be wished away in the election of leadership of the National Assembly. Hence, Lalong has an harculean task to justify his new office. 