TARKAA DAVID, in this report, looks at Nigerian Air Force’ s (NAF) efforts to promote local technology in line with the federal government’s policy of promoting local content The Nigerian Air Force recently celebrated its 55th years of existence and part of activities marking the anniversary was research and development exhibition and competition where the federal government policy of promoting local content/technology took centre stage. It is instructive to note that Nigeria’s security assets have been depleted as most of the platforms and hardware of the Armed Forces have become worn out and obsolete. In the last four years, the government has made tremendous efforts to provide funds for the acquisition of modern equipment for the Armed Forces to confront the current security challenges facing the nation. Some of the equipment and platforms procured include 35 Armoured Tanks, 25 Typhoon MRAPs, 10 Spartan APCs, 20 Armoured Guard Booths, 5 Armoured Mine Clearing Vehicles, 50 TCVs and 40 Buffalo Vehicles amongst others for the Nigerian Army. Whereas, four ships, 182 Rigid Hull Inflatable and Epenal Boats, four Inshore Patrol Craft, two STAN Patrol Vessels and one helicopter have been procured for the Nigerian Navy. For the Nigerian Air Force, 25 fixed wing aircraft and 12 helicopters. All these execute great pressure on the nation’s currency making the naira weak. The vice president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, disclosed in his address at the NAF Research and Development competition and exhibition at the Eagle Square, Abuja, that it has, in collaboration with other partners, commenced production of first ever made in Nigeria aircraft, this is aside other gadgets produced and deployed in the fight against insurgency. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr  Boss  Mustapha, said the administration will continue to encourage and support meaningful civil-military research programmes towards making Nigeria’s Armed Forces more self-reliant. Commending the Air Force, he said military, all over the world, aside from its traditional role of defending their nations from external aggression and maintaining territorial integrity, are renowned for their pioneering efforts in revolutionary researches and breakthrough discoveries in various areas. “It is in view of the foregoing that I want to specially commend the Nigerian Air Force for the efforts being made at harnessing the available research and development potentials, especially in the military aviation sector. “I have been a keen admirer of the Nigerian Air Force, having been following the great strides it has so far attained as a Service. “I recollect that in February 2018, the force was able to induct into the service, an indigenous Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). “I am equally aware of the efforts, in collaboration with other partners, to produce the first ever made in Nigeria aircraft at the Air Force Research and Development Centre in Kaduna,” he said. Recounting government commitment, he averred that the Nigerian Armed Forces have been confronting the nation’s current multifaceted internal security challenges. “In a bid to reposition the Armed Forces to better cope with those challenges, our administration has made the modernisation, re-equipping and continuous training of the Nigerian Armed Forces a top priority,” He said there is no doubt that the resources required to realise the full potentials of the Armed Forces are limited in view of the competing demands from other sectors. “Nevertheless, the Federal Government of Nigeria will continue to do its best to sustain the current tempo of development,” he said He, therefore, called on all stakeholders to embark on fruitful collaborations and joint partnerships to fund more research and development activities in the country, even as he tasked the private sector to support local technology to avoid over-dependence on foreign technology as is currently practiced. “To consolidate on these modest achievements, I wish to appeal to other public and private organisations to hold this sort of exhibition that will promote research and development efforts. “In line with our policy to promote local content, I would like to assure you that this administration shall encourage and support all meaningful civil-military research programmes towards making our Armed Forces more self-reliant,” he added. In his remarks, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, said the Nigerian Air Force has placed emphasis on research and development as a means of building indigenous technological capacity. He said: “It is gratifying to note that our strategy fits into the focus of the Federal Government, which places emphasis on promoting local content, home-grown technology and innovation as principal means of improving the nation’s foreign exchange earnings.” He explained that the Air Force Research and Development Centre was established to conduct research into aerospace and armament needs of the Nigerian Air Force, adding the centre was also tasked to coordinate existing Research and Development cells in all Nigerian Air Force units. The CAS added that the NAF has partnered with and continues to nurture its relationships with selected Nigerian universities and research institutes with which it has signed various Memoranda of Understanding. “All these are in consonance with my vision to reposition the Nigerian Air Force into a Service that focuses on using local competence to sustain operations’ efficiency and effectiveness by promoting “strategic partnerships with Ministries, Departments and Agencies for enhanced Research and Development”. He thanked the president for his support towards the service, “It was under the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari that last year, we inducted our Unmanned Aerial Vehicle nicknamed “TSAIGUMI” as part of our resolve to promote innovation and enhance self-reliance. “I am proud to announce that the unmanned aerial vehicle, which was designed and developed by Nigerian Air Force Aerospace Engineers, was aimed at enhancing NAF’s Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance capabilities. “This effort has helped the Service to consolidate on the gains made and begin to look at other areas relating to the manufacture of hexacopter and aircraft ammunition, which will greatly enhance our efforts at combating some of the internal security challenges facing our nation,” he said. It is only believed that this dream will be fulfilled since Nigeria is known for abandoning great projects which supposedly have direct impact on the lives of its citizens.