The federal government has expressed optimism that flood control project would reduce threats to lives and property of staff and students, while safeguarding school environment. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF),Mr Boss Mustapha, disclosed this at the commissioning and handing over of gully erosion and flood control works at the permanent site of Federal Government Boys College (FGBC), Wuye, Abuja. He believed the intervention would enhance learning, even as he commended the school’s authority for their cooperation during the project execution. Mustapha stated that the project was one of the twenty three ecological intervention projects approved by President Muhammadu Buhari on  September 7, 2018, for the second quarter of the year. According to him, “I learnt the school have not been able to move to this permanent site due to this ecological challenges, I hope that after this commissioning, the school will leave the temporary site to this place.” The SGF said that the project was a testimony that no part of this country would suffer any neglect due to its geographical location or political consideration. He noted that federal government’s execution of this project was a demonstration of the Buhari- led administration’s resolve towards entrenching justice, equity and fair play. Also speaking, the permanent secretary of EFO, Dr Habiba Lawal, pleaded with the school authority to take over and exercise ownership of the project by maintaining it, adding that the resources which federal government committed to the project should not be wasted. She disclosed that the timely completion of the projects were made possible through the efforts of the project contractors who worked tirelessly to ensure minimum loss of time in the project implementation schedule. Lawal pleaded with the school management  to cherish, maintain and ensure sustainability of the project, even as she lauded their cooperation in maintaining rancour – free environment during the execution of the project. On his part, the principal of FGBC Wuye, Mr Hussein Abdullahi, recalled that the minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mallam Mohammed Bello, sought the intervention of EFO to salvage the college from gully erosion. He however commended SGF for facilitating the project, which made it possible for the college to move to the permanent site.