…freshers against indiscipline,lawlessness The Cross River University of Technology CRUTECH has admitted 6,245 new students into to the institution to pursue different academic programs for the 2018/2019 academic year. Chairman, Committee of Deans, Prof. Mathew Nsing Ogar gave the warning while addressing new students at the 17th convocation ceremony which took place at the institution’s new cafeteria Calabar on Thursday. The management of the institution urged the new students to at all tines respect the constituted authority, adhere to rules and regulations, tenets and the institution’s tradition so that they will graduate and become truly useful citizens. “As students of CRUTECH, you must be guided by its mission and vision which are the philosophical statements driving the implementation of academic programs in the university”. “CRUTECH is a technology based institution and this calls for sufficient contribution of energy on the part of the university management, staff and students to the task of achieving it”. Ogar urged the students to be focus, discipline and studious so that they can graduate in flying colors. ” I wish to inform you that this is a major take off-point for defining the part to your success in life” And advised them not to allow distractive elements of whatever form distract them from achieving academic excellence. The chairman committee of Deans told the newly admitted students that if there was any social vice which management of the institution frown at is the issue of “sorting”, examination malpractice and cultism stressing that the university will not hesitate to apply extant laws and statutes to punish offenders. A break down of newly admitted students read by Prof. Ogar shows that 54 students got admission to the Faculty of Agriculture and forestry,faculty box Architecture 89 students, faculty of Basic medical science 70, faculty of Biological science 584, faculty of communication technology 305, faculty of Education 1337, faculty of Engineering 982, faculty of Environmental Sciences 437 and faculty of Management Sciences 847.