The chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, has accused state governors of covertly promoting insecurity as justification to inflate their security vote. He made the accusation on Tuesday in a paper titled: “Imperative of Fighting Corruption/Terrorism Financing in Nigeria” which he presented at the induction of new and returning governors at the State House, Abuja.  Magu, who said that he was not going into debate on the constitutionality of security vote, said that the governors must be conscious of transparency in the expenditure of public funds. He said: “We have also seen evidence of theft of public resources by some state governors – cashing on the insecurity in their states. Insecurity has also offered the required oxygen for corruption to thrive as evident in the $2.1billion arms procurement scandal involving top military commanders both serving and retired.” He stated that corruption cannot be divorced from the festering insurgency in the North East zone, adding that mass poverty in the region due in part to corruption by the ruling elite, is largely to blame for the ease with which the terrorists were able to recruit fighters to sustain their aggression against the Nigerian state.  The EFCC boss further said that the militancy in the Niger Delta region and insurgency in the North East were by-products of corruption. According to Magu, “as an investigator, I am shocked by the quantum of resources stolen from the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) by those who run the intervention agency. It is so bad that even a mere personal assistant to a former managing director was charged for stealing over N3 billion.” He, therefore, tasked in-coming and returning governors to shun corruption, stressing that “whether we like it or not, corruption and terrorism have become the twin evils undermining our collective efforts to make Nigeria a truly great country.”  Magu said that Nigeria’s failure to take advantage of its natural resources could also be attributed to corruption as public office holders were in the habit of constantly pillaging public funds. The anti-corruption czar observed that the country’s loss to corruption in the last decade runs into trillions of naira, noting that a review of the recoveries between 2017 and now, shows that in 2017, the EFCC recovered N473.065billion, $98million, €7million and £294,000, while N236.16billion was recovered in 2018, which give just an insight into what had been stolen so far. The EFCC boss said that the nexus between corruption and terrorism is that graft promotes insecurity.