The seafarers association under the aegis of the Nigerian Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transport Senior Staff Association (NMNOWTSSA) and the Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN) have raised the alarm over the sack of 300 Nigerian seafarers on a Chinese vessel in Lagos. The union said that 300 Nigerian crews were replaced at the Lekki Free Trade Zone in Lagos, alleging that all Nigerians onboard all the vessels were sacked and replaced with Chinese crews. In a protest letter to NIMASA by the unions for possible action, the union decried the influx of Chinese seafarers into nation’s maritime industry and not in conformity with the nation’s Cabotage Act. The concerned seafarers lamented that the regulatory agency, NIMASA has been informed about the development for the past five months, but no action was taken to address the situation, adding that the presence of the Chinese nationals on Nigerian waters sends a wrong signal to international community. According to a letter signed by the secretaries of the two unions; namely Comrade Julius Efokpor, and Felix Akingboye, the influx of the foreign seamen contravene the Cabotage Act of 2003.  They called on the apex maritime regulatory agency to revisit the situation and take quick action to ensure strict compliance to the cabotage law.  The statement said, “Our attention has been drawn to the above subject matter in contravention of the Cabotage Act 2003.  “All Nigerians onboard the HYSY698 were sacked as we are also informed that the vessel HYSY698 managers said they did not need any Nigerian to work with them.  “The vessel was detained by NIMASA for failing to comply with the manning requirement of the Cabotage law and was later released after days which is not acceptable. Please, we are open for meeting. “The vessels are already at the worksite to commence operation soon. Like wildfire In the harmattan, which can do nobody any good, we are informed that the owners and agents of the vessels refused to work with Nigerians onboard, rather they already have full crew of Chinese seafarers from the master of the vessels to the least man onboard.