The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has said that it was only the federal government and not the Service that can grant zero duty on imported vessels into Nigeria. The indigenous shipowners at a stakeholders’ conference organised by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on the five years’ cabotage cessation plan in Lagos recently, complained over high customs duty paid to import vessels into Nigeria while foreign shipowners work at an advantage bringing in ships on a temporary importation permit granted by the ministry of finance and paying next to nothing compared to the indigenous operators. The development, industry experts said, has paved the way for foreign-flagged ship owners to take over the business opportunities created for local ship owners under the Cabotage Act, which makes it mandatory for all cargoes within the coastal waters to be conveyed by local ship owners. But speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the deputy controller of customs in charge of enforcement at the Tin Can Island port command, Deputy Comptroller Dera Nnadi, said the NCS does not have the power to grant such request as the Service does not formulate but only implement government policies. He said, “Besides implementing policies, we take feedback from stakeholders and we give that to government and then we also take government policies, interpret it and share with stakeholders. Some of those feedbacks, sometimes, from what you saw here today, may not be very complimentary to the stakeholders.  “The truth is that we didn’t decide that, we only implement it as a government policy, but then I think there is a little misconception here about what waiver fiat is all about. It is not totally true that when you are bringing cargo under TI (Temporary Importation) it is almost free.  “No! I think that if they calculate the duty you would have paid on that item assuming it is being brought in for home use and not for temporary importation, you are supposed to deposit that same amount in a bank as bond and then present the bond to the Nigeria Customs Service and on the basis of that, you are granted waiver.”