Citizens have identified the lack of nation-builders as the bane of Nigeria’s disunity. The verdict was made by poet, Dike Chukwumerije, and reiterated by the many Nigerians present at the Nation Building town hall meeting in Abuja organized by the National Association of Seadogs, Pyrate Confraternity. In his address, Chukwumerije notes that while the foundation blocks of nation building are there in Nigeria’s shared and evolved culture, she lacks the necessary nation-builders to promote a ‘national consciousness’ among the people. Nation-builders, he says, are those who see themselves as Nigerians, possess a special kind of patriotism that enables them to love and respect a country that neither loves nor respects them, and those who defines patriotism by values and ideals that can stand the test of time. “We have evolved a new layer of culture above our indigenous cultures to which all of us share. It is called ‘Naija’. To build a nation, we must first be able to define it; saturate popular culture with national consciousness; have organizations emerge out of that consciousness, and ensure political organizations emerge from and stand for that consciousness.” Speaking to the media on the purpose of the town hall meeting, NAS publicity secretary, says the platform aims at convening citizens, home and abroad, to discuss strategies to keep the nation unified. “A growing nation has its problems. We must do our best to focus on the things that unite us and de-emphasize those things that divide us as a nation.” Highlighting the confraternity’s many acts towards nation building, Area 8 Mate, NAS Northern Region, Frank Okafor, cited the association ‘reason of entry’ which is against tribalism and ethnicity. NAS, he says, has taken that further to drafting a National Integration Bill, which its members in the National Assembly (NASS) will push to ensure its passage into law. “What we are trying to do with the bill is to ensure that when it comes to admission or public office forms, state of origin should not be important, rather it is where you live and pay taxes that matter.  It is good to know where you come from, but your decisions and actions should not be influenced by your ethnic origins. That is one of the main reasons of our existence as seadogs.” Beyond the association’s NI Bill, town hall meetings and ‘Our Votes Count’ running projects, NAS First Mate, Chiemeka Ozumba says its other programmes as the Medical Mission is part of its continued advocacy to ensure government’s provision of health centers to communities that lack such. “We have to believe in our nation. Before blaming the president or government, I have to ask myself, “how am I contributing to the problem?”, and start by changing myself,” Ozumba concludes.