New governors in 12 states of the federation spent their first full working day in office yesterday studying their predecessors’ handover notes and other vital documents. What ran through in virtually the reports were huge debts, unpaid salaries and pensions, and other obligations to contractors. In the March 9, 2019 governorship election held in 29 states, 12 new governors emerged to replace the nine that completed their two terms while the rest three defeated their predecessors. Seventeen governors were re-elected for another four years which will end in 2023. The first-time governors are Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State, Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Babagana Zulum (Borno), Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo), Abdulrahman Abdulrazak (Kwara), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Mai Mala Buni (Yobe), and Bello Mutawalle of Zamfara State. Except in a few cases, the new governors inherited empty treasury but huge debt burden from their predecessors who included Jibrilla Bindow (Adamawa), Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar (Bauchi), Kashim Shettima (Borno), Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo (Gombe), Rochas Okorocha (Imo), Abdulfatah Ahmed (Kwara), Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos), Umaru Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe), and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara). Although, some of the challenges such as insecurity and the backlog of salaries were passed on to them by their predecessors, the immediate past governors compounded the situation by incurring more debts for their successors too. Fintiri Inherits N115bn Debt, Security Challenges In Adamawa The Boko Haram insurgency bedeviling Madagali and Michika local government areas in the northern part of the state almost on a weekly basis tops the list of challenges Governor Ahmadu Fintiri Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led government has to grapple with. The immediate past governor left a debt of N115 billion for him and the civil servants’ salaries for April and May 2019. Other challenges demanding his immediate attention are outstanding pensions and gratuities, amounting to over N21 billion. The last-minute massive recruitment into the civil service by the outgone All Progressives Congress (APC) administration as well as reviewing the position of deputy permanent secretaries will no doubt confront Fintiri. Bauchi: Bala Mohammed Grapples With N137bn Debt, Others For the new governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed, his first major challenge is how to deliver on his electoral promises from an empty treasury. The Transition Committee he set up before assuming office on Wednesday, presented a report of a debt profile of N137 billion from the administration of Mohammed Abubakar. Also, civil servants from Grade Level 13 have not been paid their April salaries due to lack of funds. He equally inherited a backlog of gratuities of retired employees and the completion of critical projects such as roads initiated by the outgone governor. Zulum Battles Poor IGR, N20bn Pension Arrears In Borno Although Governor Babagana Umara Zulum of Borno State has rolled up his sleeves to face the realities of governance in the state, his major headaches are insurgency, abject poverty among the people, lack of access to education, and poor internally-generated revenue (IGR). Others are the task of managing Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and resettling them, executing uncompleted projects, deploying the ones commissioned for public use, handling the demands of the labour unions and offsetting the over N20 billion pension and gratuity arrears owed retired workers. Prof. Zulum will equally faces the task of winning public confidence through policies that will have impact on the people who have been overwhelmed by the over 10 years of Boko Haram insurgency. Inuwa Faces Poor Infrastructure, N110bn Debt in Gombe Governor Inuwa Yahaya must think out of the box to surmount the challenges staring him in the face as the new helmsman of the state. His immediate tasks are tackling the perennial water scarcity in the state, rural electricity challenge, deteriorated healthcare system and to revamp the decaying public schools. Others are the provision of roads network within the Gombe metropolis and some local government headquarters and other social amenities in the rural areas. Apart from completing the numerous ongoing and abandoned projects, Inuwa will also contend with the backlog of unpaid gratuities to retirees in the last seven years. There is also the challenge of a huge debt burden comprising foreign and domestic loans to the tune of about N110 billion. Whereas projects and services for the populace require several billions of naira to execute, the IGR of the state hovers around N650million monthly with about N3.2billion monthly allocation from the Federal Allocation Account Committee (FAAC). Ihedioha Confronts N100bn Debt, Stolen Assets For Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo state, the daunting tasks before him include  the recovery of over 500 certificates of occupancy (Cs of O) acquired by the Rochas Okorocha-led administration. The land documents were allegedly appropriated by the outgone governor for himself, family members and his cronies. Ihedioha is also faced with pension arrears and gratuities owed to retired civil and public servants. The greatest challenge that confronts Ihedioha’s administration is the huge debt profile of over N100 billion. Poor Infrastructure Worries Kwara’s AbdulRazaq The new administration of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq undoubtedly has a herculean task ahead of it. Like his contemporaries, the outgone government of Abdulfatah Ahmed left a huge deficit in infrastructural development, water supply, the decay in public schools and poor road networks in the state. Most roads in Ilorin metropolis are ridden with potholes and need urgent rehabilitation. In the education sector, no rehabilitation had been carried out in the schools in the past four years as the former government could not access the Universal Basic Education (UBEC) funds because of lack of resources to pay its counterpart funds. The completion of the two satellite campuses of the state university in Baruten (Kwara North) and Ekiti (Kwara South) are also on his table Though, the immediate-past government is not owing the civil servants salary arrears, there is an urgent need for the new government to raise the morale of the civil servants as they complain of lack of conducive working environment, tools and poor remuneration. And the biggest of all the problems that stare the new government in the face is the high rate of youth unemployment. N1.04trn Debt Weighs Down Sanwo-Olu Shortly after his swearing-in as the new and 15th governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, admitted that there are challenges before him when he said: “I agree that Lagos has many challenges before it, challenges that have the power to consume us.” He, however, promised to redouble his efforts to surmount them before the “State of Excellence” is overwhelmed by them. Although it is almost becoming a norm in Lagos State for successive administrations to inherit huge debt burden, the most daunting challenge the new governor faces is the worrisome debt burden he inherited from the immediate past administration of Governor Akinwumi Ambode. A report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that the total debt of the state had risen to N1.04 trillion. The report posited that Lagos’ domestic debt profile stood at N519.37billion while its total foreign debt is $1.451billion (N522.59 billion). Of the $1.45billion foreign debt, multilateral debt accounted for $1.307billion and bilateral debt, $143.83million. The state’s external debt accounted for 34.17 per cent of the nation’s external debt profile, which stood at $22.08billion, while its domestic debt profile accounted for 14.88 per cent of the nation’s domestic debt profile, standing at N3.48trillion. Agric Revolution Beckons On Sule In Nasarawa Although the outgone governor of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, lifted the status of Lafia to a befitting state capital and constructed roads in the 13 local government headquarters, there are several projects begging for Governor Abdullahi Sule’s attention. One of them is the “Nasarawa On The Move” public transport company, which in the past generated ample revenue for the state but has become moribund. Governor Sule is expected to prioritise agriculture the mainstay of the state’s economy. Being home of solid minerals and tourism, Sule efforts must be geared towards harnessing the sectors’ potential. Amosun Leaves N120bn Debt, 54 Months’ Salary Arrears For Gov Abiodun Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has unpaid salaries’ deductions, crisis rocking the state’s education sector as well as the unsettled huge local and external debts to contend with. In the educational sector, the governor Abiodun must resolve the lecturers and workers crisis rocking Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY) which his predecessor, Governor Ibikunle Amosun relocated from Ojere, Abeokuta to Ipokia town in Ipokia local government area of the state. This is in addition to the backlog of their unpaid five-month salaries running to over N639million. Again, at the Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun, Ijebu-Ode, the outgone government owed the school N3 billion as unpaid salaries for 54 months, while the arrears of salary and subventions run to over N7 billion at the Tai Solarin College of Education. Also at the four Information Communication Technology Institutes (Itori, Saapade, Ijebu-Igbo, and Igbesa), the salary arrears run into between N6billion and N7billion. LEADERSHIP Friday gathered that the total external debt of the state amounts to $210 million, while the local debt stands at N120billion. The state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) chairman, Emmanuel Abiodun Bankole, said that Amosun administration owed the civil servants N10 billion, being the balance of the promised offset of the state workforce’ s salary deductions, while that of the local government and pensioners run to N10 billion. These are, however, coming against the backdrop of the confession that the state’s total IGR stands at N7 billion monthly. Also, no fewer than 73 chiefs who had supported former Governor Amosun were unilaterally upgraded to Oba status without due consultation in what is widely seen as an obvious slap on the Alake of Egbaland and the Awujale of Ijebuland. So, it is obvious that the Abiodun administration will be inheriting a royal crisis. Whether or not, the new governor will survive these bobby traps or not is just a matter of time. Teachers’ Strike Welcomes Makinde To Office As Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State settles down in office, his first major assignment is addressing the ongoing strike by public primary school teachers over the non-payment of their salaries and allowances. The leadership of the NLC in the state had to call off their solidarity strike with the primary school teachers a day to May 29 to honour the new governor. Also, the governor is expected to address the controversial Ibadan Traditional Chieftaincy Law, which has pitted the immediate past governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi against the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji. Insurgency, Youth Unemployment Await Gov Buni Governor Mai Mala Buni presides over Yobe State, the second most troubled state in the North East region. Yobe has been ravaged by the activities of Boko Haram insurgents which the new governor cannot run away from. Although he has promised to consolidate on the achievements of his predecessor and senator-elect, Ibrahim Gaidam, Governor Buni must invest more in security, economic activities and the employment of youths in the state. The security challenges in the state are enormous, considering that some areas like Gulani, Gaidam, Yunusari, and Gujba local government areas are still not accessible due to the activities of Boko Haram insurgents. Gov Matawalle Dares Banditry In Zamfara Governor Bello Muhammed Matawalle has his hands full with intractable banditry and mindless killings in Zamfara State. Insecurity has crippled the state which the new government must come up with new economic approaches to move Zamfara forward. Already, most of the displaced persons from various communities by bandits have resorted to begging on the streets for survival. The state is also weighed down by unemployed youths. Matawalle must, therefore, focus on the revival of skill acquisition centres, which were never used through the eight years of the administration of Governor Abdulaziz Yari.