Kaduna State Police Command New Commissioner of Police, CP Ali Aji Janga has resumed office. This was contained in a statement signed by the command’s Public Relation Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo. “The Kaduna Police Command wishes to inform the general public that the new Commissioner of Police has resumed office today 7th May, 2019.” According to him, the new Commissioner of Police CP Ali Aji Janga psc was posted to Kaduna State Police Command on the 2nd May, 2019 and took over from CP Ahmad Abdur-Rahman as the 37th Commissioner of Police Kaduna State Command. Sabo said the new Commissioner of Police hails from Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. He is a holder of Bachelor’s Degree in Law from the famous University of Maiduguri (Uni Maid). He joined the Nigeria Police Force as Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police (CASP) on 3rd March, 1990, CP Ali A. Janga was posted to Oyo State Command, immediately he was commissioned as an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP11) from the Police Academy and since then, he has occupied various positions of responsibility within and outside the country. He has served in various Commands and formations such as Akwa Ibom, FCT, Edo, Ogun and Kwara State Commands respectively. CP Janga also served in the EFCC, FCIID and as Commanding Officer No. 20 and 23 PMF. He was ACP DOPS Edo State Command, Acpol Shagamu Ogun State, ACP PMF FHQTRSRS, DCP PMF FHQTRS and Compol MOPOL. The statement said, the new CP is not new in Kaduna State haven served as the coordinator of Operation Absolute Sanity along Kaduna/ Abuja Express way back in 2017, However, until his appointment as Commissioner of Police Kaduna State Command, he served as Commissioner of Police Kogi and Bauchi State Commands respectively. The new Commissioner of Police has tasked officers and men of the Command to rededicate themselves to duty, maintain core values of policing and shun corrupt practices and also enjoined the officers to be professional and Godly while discharging their collective responsibilities. CP Ali Janga has also appealed to the good citizens of the State to support the Police with useful information that could enable the Command to succeed in its vigorous fight against crime and criminality in the State.