The founder of Follow the Money (FTM), an initiative of Connected Development (CODE), a civil society organisation, Hamzat Lawal, has been earmarked to speak at the Global Festival of Action in Bonn, Germany on May 2nd, 2019. This is sequel to Follow The Money’s nomination as finalist in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Action Awards, and as a result, the FTM delegation will be attending the Global Festival where winners of the SDG Action Awards will be announced in each of the seven categories. The delegation, led by Follow The Money founder, Hamzat Lawal, will be meeting other world leaders who are making formidable impacts in the Civil Society space. Follow The Money, which is an initiative of Connected Development, tracks national governments’ and foreign assistance spending to empower marginalised communities to hold governments to account for their commitments, emerged one of the three finalists in the Mobilizer Category of the SDGs Action Awards nomination. According to Lawal, “this is a win for Nigeria. We are honoured that our work and impact stood out from among thousands of brilliant applications from all over the world. We do not only attend the SDGs Global Festival as Follow The Money team but as Nigerians who are trying to make a difference in the globe. We hope to win this award for our country. “CODE’s Senior Programs Manager, Chambers Umezulike, and CODE’s Kaduna Chapter Lead, Zaliha Lawal, will also be speaking about the Follow The Money movement and highlighting key successes,” Lawal added. The SDGs Action Awards Global Project Leader, Laura Hildebrandt, revealed that, this year’s selection process was harder than ever with more than 2000 excellent applications from 142 countries. According to Hildebrandt, three finalists were selected for each of the seven categories representing initiatives based in all world regions: Arab States, Lebanon, Africa Malawi, Nigeria, South Africa, the Americas (Peru, Brazil, Haiti and USA), Asia (India, Malaysia, and the Philippines) and Europe (Germany, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, and Switzerland). The UN SDGs Action Awards recognises the most brilliant individuals, civil society organisations, subnational governments, foundations, networks, private sector leaders who are working on SDGs’ advocacy to advance the global movement for the Sustainable Development Goals in the most transformative, impactful and innovative way. Follow The Money, which started in Nigeria over seven years ago, has chapters in Kenya, The Gambia, Cameroon and Liberia. As the largest social mobilisation & accountability movement in Africa, it has advocated, visualised and tracked USD 10 million meant for social development across African grassroots communities, directly impacting over 2,000,000 rural lives. 