Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said there is very likelihood for him to show the road to most of the disloyal members of his Cabinet very soon. Although the major shakeup is not centrally aimed at frustrating, or intimidating any one yet he would do his best to appoint credible and loyal members into his government and assert that it is not business as usual and the journey this time around is Herculean. He said , “ there will be  significant changes in the administrative machinery of the state to ensure that only the right people are allowed to play roles in new dispensation.” “The changes which is part of a broad vision to move the state to the next level, would affect all political office appointees except my Deputy, Dr. Nasiru Gawuna. Who has the liberty to survive the windstorm. “The shake-up will affect all Commissioners, Special Advisers, Senior Special Assistants, Personal Assistants, heads of government agencies and directors, among others. In the same vein, the State Hisbah Board and local governments will face major re organization.” Dr. Ganduje who spoke during the All Progressive Congress. (APC) Stakeholders Meeting at Africa House, Government House, stated that, “the managerial changes have already commenced with sweeping reforms on the top officials of the state civil service. “We started with the Permanent secretaries last Week and because they are the backbone of the civil service. If the backbone is weak and disloyal to the government, what should you expect? ” We shall, therefore, appoint only selfless, hardworking and trustworthy people into positions of responsibility.” Ganduje said he would not allow fifth columnists to derail his second tenure as they attempted in the past, noting that, “those who supported the APC in the recent presidential and other elections would be compensated.” He mandated that the APC stakeholders in all the 44 Local Government Areas of the state to, within two weeks, nominate 10 people each, to be given positions. Ganduje added that, “the nominees must be selected based on carefully defined criteria, including loyalty, experience, political dexterity, academic qualification and zoning, among others.” He assured that his administration would continue to support the APC to become stronger, pointing out that, “the 2019 election was a school that taught us many things ahead of 2023.’ The governor then maintained that his government, during its second term, would focus on consolidating its achievements, in health, education, skills acquisition, security and women development, among other sectors.