The National Working committee of the African Action Congress( AAC) has set up a committee to probe Omoyele Sowore over claims that he received 1 million dollars during the Rivers gubernatorial elections. The NWC also passed a vote of confidence on its acting chairman,Leonard Enzenwa. In its communique after the members of the NWC met on May 17 in Abuja, and signed by Nzenwa the NWC  also frowned at how the over One hundred and fifty seven million naira (N157,000,000.00) presidential campaign funds donated by party faithful within and outside the country was illegally utilized and not properly accounted for. The NWC also declared that the purported suspension of the Rivers State chairman of the party is  null and void as having been done illegally and the chairman is directed to continue to discharge the duties of his office. Nzenwa said the meeting was also  “To review the cases of compromise of election petitions of the party in different states and cases of collusion involving the suspended chairman Mr. Omoyele Sowore with some political parties. “That following a review of the petition of some aggrieved members of the Rivers State Chapter of the party alleging the absconding with the sum of $1,000,000.00 received by the suspended Chairman of the Party, Mr. Omoleye Sowore from a Chieftain of a rival political party for adoption of our Party as a general opposition platform for Rivers State, the National Working Committee set up a 3-man Committee headed by Hon. Musa Abu to investigate the allegations and report back in 7 days. “To review all election litigations in court including legal representations to ensure that the chances of the party are enhanced and to wedge bad eggs within the party working to undermine the interest of the party. “That the NWC viewed with concern the decision of one Tawo Tawo SAN, (a lawyer alleged to have close links with one of the chieftains of a rival party) to continue to disrespect the new leadership of the party and continue to relate with the suspended Chairman on election petition issues concerning Rivers State. “The said Tawo Tawo has by some actions shown to have conducted himself in a manner that is injurious to the legal pursuits of the party and allowing him to continue will be damaging to the party hence the decision to remove him as lawyer and appointment of another senior lawyer who will enhance the chances of the party in our quest to reclaim our mandate. “The party has also appointed legal representatives where the suspended former Chairman refused to appoint one because of the collusion and will further review representations that are tainted or influenced by outside elements,” he said.