It was an exciting and thrilling atmosphere when dignitaries from all works of life came to the nation’s capital to witness the maiden edition of the Solo Performance in Abuja. Solo Performance is a theatre performance meant for one artist who thrills his audience in style. It is quite an economical form of art that could also be called a ‘Minimalist Theatre.’ The debut event in Abuja was titled ‘Molue Classic’ and performed by Tunji Sotimirn. The multitalented actor, known to be among the pioneers of Nigerian modern solo performance is a lecturer in the University of Lagos. His performance however, portrayed the life in Lagos public transport popularly called ‘Molue,’ in his drama. He also portrayed the unending brawl on Lagos traffic during his performance as well as the endless struggle to make ends meet peculiar to residents in the state. Another solo performance by Benedict Binebai titled ‘Kerenas Cross’ (first female solo in Africa) also thrilled the audience with a blend of theatre portraying the endless and perpetual needs to embrace modernisation. The event also witnessed award presentations to Tunji Sotimirin as the first man to play solo in Nigeria, Greg Mbajiorgu, the first man to publish solo play in Nigeria and Benedict Binebai, the first man to write a female solo in Nigeria. Late Funso Alabi also bagged a Post Humous award for his contribution, he was called the king of solo. While Mohammed Danjuma was awarded for his contribution to the art of comedy in Nigeria as a solo performer. The coordinator of ‘Solo Africa,’ Awayitoma Agoma, who is a lecturer University of Abuja, Department of Theatre Art said the event was a festival of solo performance even as he decried that the theatre art has been sleeping in the country, adding that the style of the spectacular performance has not been acknowledged, recognised or celebrated. ‘‘It was once muted that we should be able to project the solo form and see how we can use it to support the rebirth of the sleeping theatre. With the solo form, we believe the theatre itself does not need too much publicity with this kind of performances we have seen today. ‘‘So, we believe that that one man actor does not need the appearances, that load a theatre crave for in elaborate lightening, costume, sound.’’