The National Democracy Stakeholders Group (NDSG) is set to launch a book chain which offers a fresh and inspiring set of books that document various aspects of Nigeria’s tortuous and uncertain journey to a stable, progressive and democratic nation beginning from the colonial to the present fourth republic. Speaking during a press conference in Abuja, the chief executive of NDSG, Kletsaint Akor noted that this books which are adequately researched and written in simple flowing everyday language present a current, factual and verifiable, non-partisan account of the motions of democratic growth and development in the country’s chequered socio-political history. Akor said the event, proposed to be jointly chaired by President and Commander-in-Chief, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR is expected to be the Special Guest of Honour who will give the keynote address, while former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, and Goodluck Ebele Jonathan will grace the event. He said the public presentation and unveiling of the NDSG book chain is also designed ‘’partly as an initiative to recognize and immortalize Nigeria’s Icons of democracy through the Honorary Legacy Collections so that readers of the book will be familiar with the outstanding achievements and contributions of the selected personalities to Nigeria’s match to an enduring democratic order.’’ Akor said the ‘’seven titles in this chain include: Centenary First Ladies; Path to Sustained Democracy in Nigeria-Evolutionary Account; Path to Sustained Democracy in Nigeria Diary of a Decade; Democracy in Nigeria 1; Democracy in Nigeria 2; Parties and General Elections in Nigeria; and State of the Nation’s Democracy.’’ He said forewords of the books was done respectively by Late former President Shehu Shagari, former Head of State Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, former President Goodluck GCFR, former Senate President David Mark, Senate President Bukola Saraki, former President Ebele Jonathan, Speaker of the 7th House of Representatives Aminu Tambuwal , Speaker of the 8th House of Representatives- Yakubu Dogara, and wife of the former Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Hajia Titi Abubakar. He added it was a privilege which the NDSG gratefully acknowledges. ‘’We are also gratefully awaiting the privilege of receiving the foreword to parties and general elections in Nigeria by President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, wife of President Mrs. Aisha Buhari and a few other distinguished Nigerians,’’ he said. He added that Democracy in Nigeria ‘’is a reportorial account of the practice and functioning of Nigeria’s evolving democracy. Inspired by the need to achieve the much-needed periodic reviews and reports on the actors, institutions, and events that characterize and shape Nigeria’s democratic experiences.’’