The Nigeria Police operatives have arrested Chinedu Onyeama, 36 years and Chibiuke Ojiribe, 30 years, all males and members of a notorious one chance robbery syndicate who operate around Kubwa express and Gwarimpa axis.  Their arrest followed a tip off after the suspects, on 23rd May, 2019 at about 10:00am picked their female victim from Dutse Alhaji as a passenger en-route AYA, and mid-way into the journey, the victim requested to alight from the cab     following the suspicious activities of one of the suspects, Chibiuke Ojiribe, who brought out One US dollar ($1) note to pay for his supposed transport fare.  The FCT police commissioner, Mr Bala Ciroma explained that “after she successfully alighted, she shared her experience with a good Samaritan who took her in his car and trailed the suspects to 3rd Avenue in Gwarimpa where some policemen on duty in the area were alerted.  “Upon receipt of the information, the police operatives immediately swung into action and arrested the suspects in their green colour Mazda 323 with registration number KWL 188 NU.”  Other exhibits recovered from the suspects are: palm fronts, pairs of old clothes, gun powder, leather carpet and a cartoon. The police commissioner noted that investigation is on-going.  Similarly, Police detectives have also arrested one Shaba Patrick, 41 years of Angwan Shehu Karimo, a notorious one chance robber, who alongside other members of his gang (now at large) use criminal antics to extort money from their victims, mostly ladies.  The police explained that “as part of the suspect’s modus operandi, he lures his female victims to brothels in slums where they are forced to undress in his presence and he inserts his finger into their private part purportedly to ascertain their virginity.  ” The suspect and his syndicate operate around Life Camp axis. One of his victims who narrated her nasty experience to the police stated that the suspect and his cohorts extorted close to N700,000 from her.”  However, the suspect said the money they collected from their victim was 250,000. All suspects will be charged to court at the completion of the investigation.