Heads of African anti-corruption agencies have requested heads of government in Europe, the United States and other jurisdictions to work towards speedy and unfettered repatriation of recovered assets to African countries. This was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the 9th Commonwealth Regional conference of Anti-corruption agencies in Africa held in Uganda. The conference also expressed concerns over the heavy losses that Africa suffers as a result of illegal transfers of proceeds of corruption and crime out of Africa. It added that there was the need to strengthen cooperation and collaboration among the Anti-Corruption Agencies in Commonwealth Africa for purposes of facilitating asset recovery and return. The conference further acknowledged the benefits of a platform for discussing emerging issues and sharing good practices and country innovations in the fight against corruption. It noted that delegates made presentations on the theme of the Conference, discussed innovative measures employed by Anti-Corruption Agencies and explored other aspects of the programme of the Conference. The conference urged Anti-corruption Agencies to pursue both preventive and enforcement measures in the fight against corruption within the unique context of each country. The communiqué further urged Anti-corruption agencies to emulate the EFCC and acquire polygraph technology as part of their investigative and integrity testing process. The acting chairman of the EFCC and the immediate chairman of Association of Anti- corruption agencies in Commonwealth Africa, Ibrahim Magu, spoke during the conference and highlighted major achievements of the commission under his watch. Experts from different walks of life further gave illuminating experiences and solutions on how to tackle the menace of corruption. The event took place between May 6 and 10, 2019 and was attended by most of the Heads of anti-graft agencies in Africa with a theme titled: “Time to act: Prevent corruption for sustainable development.” President of the Republic of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni declared the conference open on Monday, May 6, 2019 while the Commonwealth Secretary General, Hon Patricia Scotland, spoke on remarkable achievements of anti-graft agencies in Africa.