History will repeat itself today as President Muhammadu Buhari takes the constitutional oaths of office and allegiance for a second term in office. In 2015, President Buhari bounced back to reckoning from the ashes of serial electoral losses when he defeated incumbent President Goodluck Jonathan to begin his first four-year term in office. Buhari repeated the electoral feat on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (AP) last February 23, 2019 poll when he defeated his archrival and former vice president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to secure his ticket for a second term in office. At the states, 29 new governors will also be sworn in their respective state capitals. However, there will be no inauguration ceremonies in seven states of the federation because the tenures of their governors are yet to be over. The states are Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo, Ekiti, Kogi, Ondo and Osun. The swearing-in of Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will be conducted by the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed at the Eagle Square, Abuja, the same venue they were sworn in on May 29, 2015. Unlike 2015 when the inauguration was elaborate, this year’s edition will be low-key as the federal government has shifted the series of events lined for ceremony to June 12, the new official National Democracy Day. Among the activities lined up for the event which begins at 8:00 am are a guard of honour parade and an address by the president. The swearing-in will be witnessed by top government officials, service chiefs, members of the diplomatic corps, former presidents/heads of state and the leadership of the National Assembly. This will be followed later in the day by a State Banquet at the State House Conference Centre, Presidential Villa at 7:00 pm. Among the 29 governors who will take the oath of office today are those re-elected and new entrants mainly from the PDP and APC. The re-elected governors are Abdullahi Ganduje (APC, Kano), Mallam Nasir el-Rufai (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Tambuwal (PDP, Sokoto), Darius Ishaku (PDP, Taraba), Aminu Bello Masari (APC, Katsina), Okezie Ikpeazu (PDP, Abia), Udom Emmanuel (PDP, Akwa Ibom), Ben Ayade (PDP, Cross River), Ifeanyi Okowa (PDP, Delta), Dave Umahi (PDP, Ebonyi), Abubakar Bello (APC, Niger), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (PDP, Enugu), Muhammad Badaru (APC, Jigawa),Atiku Bagudu (APC, Kebbi), and Nyesom Wike (PDP, Rivers). The new governors are Babagana Zulum (APC, Borno), Inuwa Yahaya (APC, Gombe), Ihedioha Emeka (PDP, Imo), Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (APC, Kwara), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (APC, Lagos), Abdullahi Sule (APC, Nasarawa), Dapo Abiodun (APC, Ogun), Seyi Makinde (PDP, Oyo), Mai Mala Buni (APC, Yobe), and  Mohammed Mattawale (PDP, Zamfara).  PMB Declares Assets To CCB In compliance with the constitutional requirements, President Buhari has submitted his assets declaration forms to the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), which by law must precede his oath-taking today. According to a statement issued by his media aide, Mallam Garba Shehu, the duly completed forms were submitted to the CCB chairman, Prof. Mohammed Isa, on behalf of the president by Sarki Abba, the senior special assistant on Household and Domestic Affairs. The forms, as signed by the president and sworn to before a judge of Abuja High Court showed no significant changes in the assets as he declared in 2015. There are no new houses, no new bank accounts at home and abroad and there are also no new shares acquired. Mohammed commended the president for leading by example by declaring his assets in accordance with the law.  Police Enforces Restriction On Vehicular Movement In Abuja Ahead of the inauguration, the Nigeria Police Force has announced restriction on vehicular movement in some areas in Abuja. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) police commissioner, Mr. Bala Ciroma, said yesterday that ahead of the presidential inauguration ceremony, the command is working in collaboration with sister security agencies to ensure a hitch-free exercise He said: “Members of the public should also note that as part of security measures put in place for the event, there will be diversion of vehicular movement on some major routes leading to the Eagle Square, venue of the event.” The CP, who was represented by a deputy commissioner of police, Usman Umar, said that “the affected routes are Aso Drive, FCDA by Finance Headquarters, Bayelsa House junction, National Assembly, Transcorp by Gana junction, NITEL junction by Ahmadu Bello Way, Kur Mohammed by Benue House Plaza, NNPC Tower, Federal Sectariat Phase III under bridge, behind Foreign Affairs under bridge, FCDA by POWA and Goodluck Ebele Jonathan Expressway (inter section into 3 Arm Zone).” While apologising for the inconveniences this may cause road users, the commissioner urged members of the public to use alternative routes to their destinations.  EFCC Beams Search Light On Outgoing Govs Meanwhile, as the immunity for some the outgoing governors expires today, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has turned its searchlight on them. Some of them allegedly have corruption cases to answer. An EFCC official told LEADERSHIP yesterday that the outgoing governors who are under investigation know themselves and are advised to come forward for a chat with the commission when their tenure expires as the anti-graft body has already spread its tentacles to nab anyone who chooses to run away. He also revealed that operatives of the commission were working tirelessly to ensure that no governor, deputy or whosoever escapes the law by fleeing abroad after handover ceremony. Already, the EFCC has arrested one Murtala Muhammad, alleged to be a brother to secretary to the Zamfara State government, Prof. Abdullahi Shinkafi, with N60million cash, following intelligent report of his suspicious money laundering activities. The suspect was arrested at 145, Igala Housing Estate, Off Byepass Road, Gusau, Zamfara State by the operatives of the commission. EFCC spokesperson, Tony Orilade, who confirmed the arrest, said items recovered from him were one Black Toyota Land Cruiser Prado with registration number DKA 67 PX Kaduna loaded with four bags of “Ghana Must Go” containing N1,000 note of N15 million each, totalling N60 million, one single barrel gun, one locally-made revolver pistol, 25 rounds of cartridges and 12 rounds of 12.9mm live ammunition. He will be charged to court as soon as investigations are completed, Orilade said.