Two policemen and an unidentified gunman were killed on Sunday night during a gun battle policemen and unknown gunmen at a night club located along Woji Road in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. LEADERSHIP learnt that gunmen had stormed the popular hangout in search of a person at the bar when they unexpectedly met policemen manning the place. It was also learnt that the gunmen immediately opened fire, killing two policemen while one policeman, who was shot in the hand fired back at them. It was further learnt that the gallant policeman shot and killed one of the hoodlums, injured one and recovered three rifles from them. According to a security source, three rifles were recovered, two of the rifles, which belonged to the two policemen that were killed, while the other gun recovered from the bandit shot dead by the gallant officer. An eyewitness, who was at the scene of the incident, said, “We were there drinking when one of my friends said he was going to ease himself at the bar’s restroom. “Before he came out, I began to hear gunshots and everybody began to run helter-skelter. But the police, who mounted sacks of sand at the front of the bar, face the gunmen. If not for the policemen, it would have been terrible that night.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed that two policemen lost their lives during the incident, adding that one of the bandits was shot dead by a gallant police officer. Omoni explained that the gallant policeman currently receiving treatment in the hospital also recovered two rifles belonging to the Nigeria Police from the hoodlums. He said: “The incident happened around 10pm on Sunday. The gallant police officer recovered three rifles; two belonging to the policemen that were killed and one belonging to the hoodlum that he shot dead during the gun duel. “The policeman was earlier shot in the hand by the gunmen and while he (policeman) was on the ground, the hoodlum, who shot him, came to collect his (policeman) rifle. “But the police officer saw him coming, used one hand to grab the gun and killed the gunman. He also shot another hoodlum, who was carried away by members of the gang. The policeman repelled that the gunmen, who escaped with their wounded gang members.” The state police spokesman, however, called on members of the public to report any person with gunshot injury to the nearest police station in the state.