Three civil society organizations in Rivers State, have rated Obio/Akpor and Emohua local government areas as top of the list of local government areas in the state with the highest number of cult-related killings in the state in the month of April 2019. The three groups which include; We-The-People, Centre for Social Studies and Development as well as the Rivers State Civil Society Organization, listed Oyigbo, Ikwerre, Khana, Port Harcourt City and Ahoada-West local government areas as areas that recorded cult-related killings within that period. Speaking during a press conference in Port Harcourt yesterday, spokesman of the three groups, Ken Henshaw, said within the period, Obio/Akpor and Emohua recorded 14 and 12 cult-related killings respectively. Henshaw stated that while Khana, Oyigbo and Ikwerre recorded seven, five and four deaths, respectively, cult clashes claimed two and one lives respectively on Port Harcourt City and Ahoada-West local government areas of the state. He said: “An atmosphere of shock and fright engulfed the state with residents anticipating the next gory tale of murder, occurring on a near daily basis. “The murderous atrocities in the month of April 2019, have further raised questions about the capacity or willingness of the law enforcement agencies to maintain law and order and prosecute offenders.” Speaking also, Chairman of Rivers State Civil Society Organization, Enefa Georgewill, said some of those fingered in the 2015 Election Report by the National Human Rights Commission were behind the recent cult-related clashes in the state. Georgewill said: “It is disheartened that privileged individuals now uses the more security men to the detriment of the less privileged in the society. “Some of those fingered in the 2015 election report by national human right commission are also same people we are hearing their names again. “It is common knowledge that under the disguise of bail, hardened criminals are routinely released, when they come up with huge payment to the police. “This is a sad but common saying that every crime has a price, thereby making crime and criminality lucrative. “We demand for the immediate withdrawal and reposting attached to VIPs (Very Important Personalities) and companies to assist the limited man-power in policing the country. “Police should as a matter of urgency commence the compilation of a register of convicted criminals in the country, for it will make the job of investigation easier. “Police should also develop a register of citizens killed in Atrocious circumstances and commence investigation into their death.”