Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said that the Church would continue to play a very critical role in the overall growth and development of the country. Obasanjo made this known, yesterday, at the 2019 Synod of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta. The former president noted that the Church in Nigeria has continued to provide the spiritual growth of the people as well as the overall physical wellbeing and welfare of Nigerians. Obasanjo, who spoke on the topic, “Mobilising Nigeria’s Human and Natural Resources for National Development and Stability,” said the Church had, in the face of daunting challenges, continued to mould opinions. He said the Church also makes critical interventions, and influences policies and general directions of the various tiers of government in Nigeria. “A clear testimony to this ennobling role of the church can be seen from the topic: Mobilising Nigeria’s Human and Natural Resources for National Development and Stability. “The main mission of the Church is salvation of the soul but without ignoring the physical, mental and the general social well-being of humankind. “This topic is, to me, very apt, particularly as our dear country, Nigeria keeps seeking ways and means of overcoming the developmental challenges that confront it. “When closely examined, it can be seen that the topic is prescriptive, as against the general norm nowadays, which tend to dwell only on the ills that afflict us and consequently end up with only criticisms. “But I must hasten to say that criticism, particularly objective criticism is good for growth and human development,” he said. Enugu Govt Orders Relocation Of Market Close To Airport The Enugu State government has directed officials of Enugu East Local Government Council to find a suitable site for the relocation of Orie Emene Market. The commissioner for Information, Mr Ogbuagu Anikwe, disclosed this, yesterday, while briefing newsmen in Enugu. Anikwe said that the directive followed the immediate closure of the market following concerns by the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). The FAAN had threatened to either close down the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, or withdraw its international status. The Minister of State, Aviation, Mr Hadi Sirika, had, during the 6th Stakeholders Forum held in Lagos, on Friday, complained about the presence of the market close to the airport, which he said attracted birds. Sirika was quoted as saying that presence of birds, which caused constant bird strikes and the wrong placement of the state radio mast directly facing the runway, posed security and safety challenges to the airport. The minister also complained about the runway of the airport. However, the state government, shortly after the news, moved swiftly to announce the immediate closure of the market and the adjoining abattoir. The commissioner said that the state government also ordered immediate removal of illegal structures that encroached on the land of the airport. He said that the move was to ensure the safety of air travelers and people residing around the airport. “The State Executive Council directs the LGA chairman to effect immediate closure of the market,” he said. Anikwe recalled that the state executive council had, on Oct 12, 2018, approved funds for relocation of the Enugu State Broadcast Service mast on the approach of the runway.