The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has said the Professor Nelson Braimbraifa-led management team is making much impact across the states in the Niger Detla region. This is as it appealed to social media practitioners in the region to assist in telling the outside world about the people-oriented programmes and policies of the commission. NDDC Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Dr. Chris Oyirinda Amadi, spoke yesterday in Port Harcourt during an interactive session with members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) New Media Team. Amadi, who stated that the commission was making conscious efforts to reach out to youthd in the Niger Delta region, thanked the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, for finding him worthy to be recommended to President Muhammadu Buhari for appointment. He said: I am eternally grateful to our leader and Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for finding me worthy and recommending me to President Muhammadu Buhari for appointment. “We are very grateful and we have made very conscious effort to reach out to youths in the Niger Delta region through the NDDC volunteer scheme.” The Acting Executive Director stated that the NDDC has intervened in the area of healthcare by providing medical equipment to hospitals and other institutions in the region. Amadi said: “I will enjoin all of us to support our brother and compatriot who is on the other side to tell the story of NDDC. NDDC is intervening in healthcare in the region, we have built health centres and cottage hospitals. “We have specialist hospitals under construction. We have also supported institutions with medical equipment. In fact, few days ago, I visited the NDDC warehouses in Port Harcourt. We have just gotten some incinerators. “With the Managing Director’s directive, we have also donated logistics to various hospitals in the region. We have in our warehouse solar-powered machines used to preserve vaccines. These are not common around here as most of the hospitals do not have it.” In his welcome address, Chairman of APC New Media Team in the state, Kenneth Minima, said the success of the interactive session has proven that efforts of the over 300 members of the teams were being noticed. Minima said: “We thank the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration for accepting to attend the interactive session. By this gesture, whatever this generation is putting on the line for the success of our political family and sake of humanity is not going unnoticed.”