The Action Democratic Party (ADP) yesterday expelled 17 officers over alleged anti-party activities arising from the 2019 general elections. In a communique issued at the end of its 7th National Executive Committees (NEC) meeting held weekend in Abuja and signed by its national chairman, Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani and National Secretary, Dr. Steve Uwazie, the party said the suspension is in line with Article 52.1 of its constitution. “In compliance with Article 52.1 of the ADP constitution, the following officers have been expelled from the party as a result of anti-party activities, insurbodination and causing disaffection and division among members. The officers expelled are: Dr. James Okoroma, Eng. Esther Oche, Chief lbom lge-Edaba, Temltope Salami, Prince Edobor Oghosa, Alhaji Lateef Amwosaye and Amh. Andrew Nanyah Daman l.” Others according to the communique are: “Hon Dr IKonwen Osaze, Dr Ehigbor Johnson1, Dennis Richard Okatubo, Victoria Tare Goodluck, Non Dahiru Yusuf Yabo, Ibrahim Mohammed Saulawa, Muhammad A. Ghali, Alh. Grema Musa and Barr. James Chukwunweaku Ude.” The party said following the experience of the just concluded 2019 General Elections, there was urgent need for the party to be repositioned for effective preparation to win the 2023 elections. “That NEC has delegated the following responsibilities to the National Working Committee (NWC): 1. that subject to the provision of the Party Constitution, restructure and submit to INEC a new interim structure and distribution of the Executive positions of the Party at all levels; Supervise and direct all party activities at all levels; that subject to the provision of the Party Constitution, Ethics and Values Council shall jointly with NEC dissolve all State Executive Committee, all Local Government Executive Committee, all Ward Executive committee, all Polling Unit Executive Committee and appoint all Caretaker Committee to run the Party until another Executive Committee is elected, provided that the period from the dissolution to the election of a new Executive Committee shall not exceed three (3) months; “That the Party shall establish departments such as Administrative, Legal Services, Human Resources Management, Finance and Investment, Research and Liaison, Information and Communication Technology, Mobilization and set up Ad-hoc and standing Committees for the Party; that the NWC shall manage and control all assets and property of the Party in various locations; that the NWC shall examine the actions, policies, programmes and legislations proposed by the party’s led government, whether Federal, State or Local government and in conjunction with BoT and Ethics and Values Council, take measures to ensure that they are in accordance with the principles, policies, programmes, objectives and manifesto of the Party. That Sen. Roland Owie, a leader of the Party from the South South be invited to appear before the Disciplinary Committee to explain his alleged involvement in pitching some State chapters of the ADP against the leadership of the Party, contrary to the Constitution of the Party. That in line with the need to reposition the party and facilitate effective operations and political engagement devoid of rancor, all legal means shall be adopted to retrieve the Party’s Toyota Sienna vehicle given to Dr. James Okoroma, the former National Secretary as official car in his capacity as Director-General of the W Sani Presidential Campaign Council, and all other party properties in possession of any other person illegally be retrieved. That all members who are absent at today’s meeting be invited by the Disciplinary Committee of the Party at the National level to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for failing to attend . the NEC meeting today,” the communique said. It stated further: “That NEC unanimously pass a vote of confidence on the leadership of Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani as National Chairman of the ADP. We pledge our loyalty to his leadership and call on members of the party to rally round him to reposition our great party.” “That appointments of all the new NWC members be upheld pending the . ratification of their portfolios. NEC directs that subsequently; their appointment letters be given to them with all relevant institutions put on . notice. That all Standing Committees are hereby dissolved and new ones will be reconstituted,” the party announced stating that the new meassure put in place will enhance efficiency in the management of the party affairs. 