The Senator-elect of Kaduna Central senatorial zone, Malam Uba Sani, has described Nigeria’s organized labour as the conscience of the nation for being “the scourge against authoritarianism”. In his Workers’ Day message, the Senator-elect explained that the organized labour, while using its weighty voice in national affairs also “vigorously monitored governance across the country and proffered workable alternatives” for national rebirth. Uba Sani further stated that Nigeria’s history would not be complete without “a mention of the heroic struggles of workers for our Independence and enthronement of democratic rule”. He emphasized that the struggle of Nigerian workers helped significantly in “shaping the character, complexion and structure of our federation” adding that the patriotic contributions of the workers also “made it possible to have a federation where we constantly strive towards equity, justice and fairness”. Turning to the present administration’s milestone on labour matters, Senator Uba Sani declared: “A lot has been achieved towards ensuring better living condition for Nigerian workers. The recently signed Minimum Wage Law is a pointer to the Buhari administration’s interest in the welfare and happiness of Nigerian workers. But challenges remain. I am confident that in Mr. President’s second term he would, in liaison with the National Assembly, initiate more pro-workers, pro-peoples policies and programmes to better the living conditions of Nigerian workers”. Commenting on Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s government, the Senator-elect rated the administration high on being “unrelenting in its promotion and protection of workers’ rights”. Uba Sani said regardless of the misgivings in certain quarters, the El-Rufai administration has  “tremendously improved the welfare of Kaduna State workers”, while assuring the workers that the governor would “take issues of Workers’ welfare to the Next Level in his second term. He(El-Rufai) is not given to empty promises. His word is his bond”. He also assured that the governor would close ranks with the private sector to create window of opportunities for jobs and enhancement of Workers’ welfare in the private sector. “Very attractive incentives for private investors are already in offer”, he said. On his lawmaker role and the expectation of his constituents, Senator Uba Sani assured: ” As a Senator-Elect representing Kaduna Central as well as the Nigerian people, I will ensure that as we resume the 9th National Assembly, we will begin to push for motions that will further improve the welfare of the Nigerian workers” he said.