The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has tightened its regulatory role as it concerns travel agencies across the country, warning that any travel agency operating in Nigeria and is yet to register with the NCAA is clearly violating extant Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations. In an official statement issued recently and signed by the general manager, Public Relations, Mr. Sam Adurogboye, NCAA, stated that the controversy in certain quarters of absence of legislation concerning the registration of travel agencies is misguided. The agency warned “For the avoidance of doubt, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs) confers power on NCAA to register and added that certificates to travel agencies without which no travel agency shall operate in Nigeria. Part 18.9.1 (iii) of (Nig.CARs) unequivocally and incontrovertibly states that no person shall undertake the business of travel agency in Nigeria without obtaining a Certificate or License issued by the NCAA. “As a corollary to this, Part 18.9.4.1 of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (NCARs) 2015 states that all travel agencies shall register with the Authority after fulfilling the necessary requirements specified in IS18.9.1.2 (iii) to these regulations. “The Civil Aviation Act. 2006, Part IX, Section 30 (4) (a) inter-alia empowers the Authority to regulate, supervise and monitor the activities of Travel and other Aviation Agents operating in Nigeria. To join the IATA BSP, Part 18.9.4.2. of the NCARs states that All registered Travel Agencies shall join and trade on IATA BSP Platform”. NCAA further hinted that it is important to note that the fulfilment of the aforementioned regulation Part 18.9.4.1 is a mandatory requirement for IATA to accept a travel agency on its BSP platform. However, it is after registration that a Travel Agent can commence business on the IATA BSP platform. According to NCAA, the agency is therefore, taking concerted steps to instil sanity and orderliness into the operations of travel agencies in Nigeria. The NCAA further stated that the Authority will be collaborating with IATA to provide a robust regulatory oversight on this sector of aviation downstream operations. All IATA accredited agents have 60 days within which to register and obtain NCAAs Certificate of Registration. This ultimatum commenced from 7th May, 2019.