Jaymeema Retdi Nathaniel is an indigene of Plateau State; she is of the Mupun ethnic group. She was born into the family of Mr and Mrs Nathaniel Dabwol, third of four children. She had her nursery and primary education at Educare Private School, Jos and her secondary education at St Benedicts Seminary and Convent in Pankshin, Plateau State. She studied Mass Communication at the University of Jos, Plateau State. She has been in the Events Planning and Management business for two years. Background My name is Jaymeema Retdi Nathaniel from Pankshin local government area of Plateau State and Mupun by tribe. I was born into the family of Mr and Mrs Nathaniel Dabwol on 21st November, 1990 in Jos, Plateau State. I am the third of four children. I started my educational career at Educare Private School, Jos. From there to St Benedicts Seminary and Convent in Pankshin for my secondary education. After secondary school, I gained admission to the University of Jos to study Mass Communication. It was Mass Communication or nothing else, because it has been a passion since childhood. After completing the four-year course, I was posted to Ifewara Middle School, Osun State for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 2015. It was quite an experience as I was opportune to live in a different environment with people of different ethnicity and I learnt a whole lot in just a year. Due to my quest for knowledge, I am presently studying to obtain a Master’s Degree (MSc) in Mass Communication at the University of Jos. I am into events planning and management with the brand name Events by ret. How It All Started Growing up, I found myself planning and organising small size house parties especially with my siblings and it later extended to friends. I also noticed people called me for ideas when they had an event to plan. This made me believe there was something I was getting right, that made them value my opinion. From there in 2016, I started with N10, 000 and today, when I look back, I feel so happy knowing I am not where I used to be because I am into planning all kinds of events like weddings, bridal showers, baby showers, birthday parties, dinners and lots more. Sometimes, I feel overwhelmed with emotions knowing the story behind my success. Who Taught You? Unlike others who go into various businesses and are able to learn through others, I feel blessed because events planning is inbuilt in me. Though, I am able to improve myself by watching the works of people who are ahead of me in the events world. Driving Force? The thought of leaving an indelible mark in life has always pushed me to go the extra mile. I believe one should live life impacting the world and the people in it, with this, I look forward to playing my role in the lives of the less privileged in the society. Family is also important to me and letting them down in anyway is not an option. What Sets You Apart From Competitiors? Packaging does it for me and that has been my style from the onset. Mentors In business, the wedding guru is it for me and I intend to surpass her success because I am ‘hungry’ for success. My mother, Mrs Salome Dabwol, is one strong woman I know, whose support I enjoy. Also my elder sister, Mrs Nandak Solomon Kaze and late aunt Bridget Sare, are people I hold dear and I will make them proud. Hobbies As an event planner, I love my job, travelling, reading novels, watching movies and making new friends. Dread Fear of the unknown but since business is all about taking risk, I believe I will make it because there is no going back for me, not now that I am seeing its benefits. Achievements A lot has happened in my life and I thank God. Even though I am still growing in the business, I have people looking up to me and it makes me feel great. To some extent, I am able to take care of my needs. Challenges It is a small-scale business at the moment and it definitely cannot be without challenges but I choose not to talk about it as I have devised new ways to forge ahead. Regrets No regrets at all. Secret Of Your Success It can only be my method man, God. Future Projection To own my event centre someday. Most Memorable Day I’ve had both sweet, sour and bitter experiences but I will always remember the month of November as the day I received my first Federal Government job appointment letter. How Do You Combine Business, Profession With Family Life? It is not too difficult at the moment because I have people around me who understand and support me. Advice Women should think of what they can do to establish themselves. They should not just delve into any business without proper enquiry and knowledge. Anyone can go into business and it is not necessary to start with huge capital.