… arrests operator, 59 teenage sex workers Officials of the Cross River state Command of the Department of State Services Friday night apprehended 59 teenage sex hawkers in Calabar, capital of Cross River State raiding the night clubs. Arrest of the 59 teenage sex workers in Palsy hotel and Peace Garden around 12:am of Friday night followed a tip off by concerned citizens who alleged that the night clubs in question were turning itself to Soddom and Gommorah recruiting teenagers to join the illicit trade. According to a concerned citizen, John Antigha who claimed to be so angry with the development, said how can someone be running a joint of this nature just because he or she wants to make money? Calabar cannot be turn to Soddom And Gommorah. ” “Am afraid what this generation is turning into? “Government and well-meaning Cross riverians cannot to pretend that all is well. All isn’t well unless we refused to sit down and fold our hands and refused to fight this social malaise” According to a DSS official claiming to speaking on behalf of the state director of the DSS Adebayo illupeju, told journalists that operator of  one of Papsy Hotel has also been apprehended alongside 15 other persons suspected to be involved in drugs and other social vices. Ilupeju stressed that the service does not prosecute cases involving teenage sex workers but instead has gotten in contact with officials of the National Agency for the Prosecution of Trafficking in persons NAPTIP who will take the case up with those behind the teenagers apprehended alongside the suspects criminals. The state DSS boss maintained that that operator of Peace Garden Hotel where some of the teenage sex workers were also apprehended would also be trail and fish out. According to one of the underage sex workers, Chinazo Emmanuel from Abia State, who said she was  15 years of age claimed that she was lured into the illicit  trade by one of her  friend who later mysteriously disappeared after she put her in the hands of one aunty Favor resident of Calabar South. Upon interaction with the 15 years teenage sex worker, China so said, “I lost contact with mum in Abia state and I came to calabar with a friend for a church programme. “After the programme last year, I later came back on my own to calabar where I joined the trade so as to help me pay for my WAEC fees. “I have a permanent lodge in Papsy where I pay 1,000 daily and 4,000 on Fridays and the money i have made which is over 70, 000is kept for me in an Osusu”, she said. LEADERSHIP while also interacting with another teenage sex worker who claimed to named, Princess Oliver from Ibiono Ibom, in Akwa Ibom State told our correspondent that she was lured into the illicit trade  by one of her friends who deceived her that she should come to Calabar to assist one lady  by name ” Aunty Favor to sell a provision shop unknown to her that the story was a set up where she was forced into the sex trade. Olivier stressed her attempt to run away from her mistress proved abortive as her mistress and her boyfriend even beat her to a pulp alleging that her mistress and her boyfriend even took her to a shrine where they asked her to take an oath but she declined. She said that she got a beating of her life in the hands of Aunty Favour and her boyfriend residents of Calabar South when she made an attempt to flee away stressing that she lives permanently at Papsy’s place where she sleeps with all sorts of men on daily basis and makes  returns to her  as well as pays  rents to operator of the hotel on a daily basis. Upon interaction with operator of Palpsy hotel, Edem John to confirm the story, the operator of the hotel claims that he does the business to take care of himself.  The father of two added that he has about 12 girls working for him stressing that the teenage sex workers  lodge permanently in his hotel to trade their bodies for cash. “About 12 girls permanently work there and they came by themselves. “I sell drinks, Cigarette and have girls who permanently work there who pay 1,000 daily except on Fridays where they pay Four thousand”, Eden maintained.    