Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ifaki Ekiti are in disagreement over the suspension order slammed on former governor of the state, Segun Oni, over anti-party activities. While some justified Oni’s suspension from the party, others had described it as shameful and illegal by party leaders in two wards in Ifaki Ekiti, in Ido/Osi local government area of the state, alleging that the procedure violated the constitution of the party. Messrs Michael Durodola, Tayo Okanlawon, Ebenezer Ogunlana and Sola Ilori, who are from the two wards, signed a statement rejecting the party’s position on Oni’s suspension. The APC executives in Ifaki ward II, had on May 1st, 2019, slammed Oni with indefinite suspension from the party for alleged involvement in anti-party activities. Apart from other undisclosed allegations tagged anti party, Oni had, shortly after the July 14, 2018 governorship election, won by governor Kayode Fayemi, gone to court to challenge his eligibility to participate in the May 12, 2018 primary of the party. Oni, among other issues, described Fayemi’s refusal to resign as a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as an infraction and flagrant violation of the party’s constitution and guidelines. The letter conveying Oni’s suspension was signed by the chairman and secretary of Ifaki ward II, Shina Akinloye and Ogunyemi Taiwo, respectively and 24 other executive members in the ward. Meanwhile, a statement was signed by some party leaders, yesterday, dissociating themselves from the suspension, saying it was an act of disrespect. The statement read: “The ward executives’ decision to suspend Segun Oni did not receive the blessing of generality of Ifaki wards’ APC Leaders. “The concocted allegations were unfounded. Names of those said to have raised allegations of anti-party against Oni were not mentioned, neither were they invited. “The faceless committee they said they set up did not properly invite the former governor. The suspension letter written to the former governor has no signatories and this renders it useless. “With the above, we the entire elders of the APC in the two wards in Ifaki reject this suspension and we urge the party members and the public to discountenance it”, they said.