In this write-up CHIKA IZUORA looks at how Nigeria and indeed Africa can attract capital flow for sustainable development. Capital flow into Africa and more specifically, Nigeria remains a crucial factor to the attainment of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which was adopted by all United Nations member states in 2015. A decade and half to the deadline set for achieving the SDGs, a dearth of capital threatens the attainment of the SDGs on the African continent. As confirmed by a 2018 SDGs Index and Dashboards report from the SDG Center for Africa, Africa faces more critical challenges than any other region in the world in terms of achieving the SDGs, partially because of poor finance. Yet, policy makers on the continent are not aggressive in formulating policies that will accelerate the flow of investments into the continent through the private sector. For Nigeria, the private sector faces difficulty in accessing capital to fund crucial projects due to several challenges which the business environment presents. The difficulty in accessing capital by businesses is a hindrance to attainment of the SDGs. It was on this note that Ocorian, an alternative investment, corporate and institutional investment, private client and international growth service provider, gathered over 100 financial experts and investors to deliberate on the challenges facing the continent and International Financial Centres (IFCs) as they seek to unclog the investment pipeline to African countries, including Nigeria. At the maiden edition of the Ocorian forum held in Lagos, IFCs were identified as instrumental to improving access to capital for businesses as well as abating the fears of foreign investors who are wary of committing resources to African enterprises due to the lack of structures and processes. It was observed at the event that there is an increase in the level of participation of developmental financial institutions (DFIs) and private equity in Africa. However, a lot of private equity funds require well-regulated and conducive jurisdictions to invest. Over the years, Mauritius has stood out as a preferred destination for the domiciliation of private equity funds in Africa due to the investment friendly framework that exists in the country. This is a model which African countries including Nigeria should explore to increase the inflow of capital. The problem of poor governance was a focal discussion point during the recent forum in Lagos. Participants identified and agreed that it is the biggest impediment to foreign investment on the continent, discouraging the inflow of funds. According to experts at the event, poor governance manifests in two forms: in the political sphere and at the corporate or organisational level. Poor policy formulation, coupled with a lack of transparency and political instability arising from weak governance, increases cost and risk for foreign investors. However, the focus of discourse was corporate governance culture in Nigeria and Africa. The regional CEO, Africa, Middle-East and Asia (AMEA) of Ocorian, Richard Arlove noted that corporate governance is not deeply rooted in Africa. “The issue has become even more urgent especially when you realise that there has been a shift from foreign aid to private equity in the quest to fund critical projects that have the capacity to drive the continent’s developmental targets,” Arlove said at the event. He stated that a lot of businesses in Africa now leverage private equity funds compared to several years back, and that the trend requires a greater level of transparency to earn the trust of investors who have funds to grow start-ups and existing businesses. The regional director of the fiduciary and corporate services provider said, “Investors are keen on being able to trace how their fund will be deployed in the business so they can be assured that they can recoup their fund.” Unfortunately, in Africa governance is often seen as a pain. For instance, a lot of businesses cluster most of the responsibilities of governance on the founder who would act as the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer and occupy many other roles. The unintended effect of such a practice, coupled with a lack of proper bookkeeping, is that potential investors are discouraged by the absence of transparency in the business processes. The solution to this, according to Arlove, is corporate governance. He further explained that businesses in Africa need to jettison the family-run model and become more flexible to attain full potential and maximize growth opportunities. ‘‘If you want your business to be part of an International Finance Centre, then you need to have an independent board, you need to have audited financial reports, you need transparency. All of this is what corporate governance entails,’’ he said. Arlove believes the issue is not about paucity of funds to support businesses in Africa but more about improving corporate governance practice so that more capital can become accessible. ‘’On one side, you have many private equity firms today with money lined up, looking for good projects to invest in. On the other, you have many entrepreneurs who need these funds, but there is no match,” he added. Delivering the opening remark at the event, Tonye Cole, Founder, The Nehemiah Youth Empowerment Initiative and Former Executive Director & Co-Founder, Sahara Group, drew attention to the role of the investment banking community in the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Cole said: “The financial and economic liberation of Africa and Nigeria specifically, is critical for business growth. I have over time worked with the team in charge of meeting the Sustainable Development Goals 2030 target for the economy. The United Nations estimated the capital required for the period to be $11.5 trillion. The issues related to poverty, hunger and malnourishment and zero access to basic healthcare are some of the global challenges.” A highlight of the forum was a panel discussion themed: “Adding Value to International Business in and out of Nigeria – the role played by an International Financial Centre”. The panel discussion was moderated by Nousrath Bhugeloo, Regional Head, Ocorian AMEA, Business Development. Panelists included: Wola Asase, Head of Syndication and Trade Finance, Africa Finance Corporation Tokunboh Ishmael, Co-Founder and Managing Director, Alitheia Adesuwa Okunbo, Partner & Managing Director, Syntaxis Capital Africa Ari Sengupta, Group Managing Director, Chicason Group Richard Arlove, Regional Director AMEA, Ocorian The panel emphasised the need for companies to build sustainable businesses by seeking capital from the most efficient sources for growth. Ocorian enhances enterprise value and protects investors by using financial centres. It facilitates the flow of African-focused funds into different industries and sectors including high impact funds for projects or businesses that prioritise social and environmental impact. The Ocorian Forum, previously known as the ABAX Forum, serves as a platform to exchange views and promote thought leadership around the key questions of enterprise value and investor value driven by IFCs. An earlier edition was held in Abidjan this year.