-Over 200 Seats at the NASS will be occupied by young Lawmakers -YIAGA – Nigeria will not move forward if…..British High Commissioner”. The Speaker, House of Representatives RT. Hon Yakubu Dogara, has said Nigeria’s real disease is a lack of true leadership, which in turn breeds moral corruption and wickedness. The Speaker stated this in his keynote address, presented at the Convergence 2.0 of The Not Too Young To Run Movement, themed Convergence: Leadership, Power and Politics” which began in Abuja Tuesday” The Convergence is Nigeria’s largest gathering of young elected representatives organized by YIAGA Africa YIAGA Africa and Not Too Young To Run Movement, CYNTHIA MBAMALU said “The 2019 general election was referred to as an election with numbers: 84 million registered voters, 91 registered political parties, 23, 316 candidates vying for the 1558 elective seats. “Of these numbers our favorite was the percentage of young voters and then young candidates! 34.7% youth candidates with the 41.8% contesting for seats in the State Assemblies and 27.4% for the House of Representatives and today in this room, we have young lawmakers who we celebrate today. “Today, 340 days after the signing of the Not Too Young to Run Bill into law, we have 17 under 30 year old who won their election into their respective state houses of assembly. Today out of the 991 seats in the state houses of assembly, over 200 will be occupied by young elected lawmakers. “Today is beyond being young, it is about Leadership, Power and Politics. Leadership, because for so long we have struggled as a people to answer the leadership question. The convergence 2.0 is about working together to set a legislative agenda that is people driven, that promote inclusion and the indices that enable sustainable development”. According to Speaker Dogara “I disagree with all those who say our major national disease is financial corruption rather the real disease has been the absence of true leadership which in turn breeds moral corruption and wickedness. “Get a true leader that solves moral corruption and wickedness; when that happens, you will search for financial corruption to no avail” He observed that the leadership model Nigeria has practiced so far is the kind of leadership that produces sycophants who are expected to serve their political godfathers and not the people. “Our so called leaders have mastered the art of political witchcraft so much so that if you are independent minded you are automatically disqualified and if for any reason you are picked then you have to surrender your soul for them to eat in small bites until you become their worshipper” “In the midst of this pandemic sycophancy our so called godfathers expect us to fit in and not to stand up to be counted or make a difference. We need leaders who will lead us to build a nation and serve others not godfathers who demand that we worship and serve them rather than serve the people”. Speaking to the newly young elected member in the house, Speaker Dogara charged the young people who carry the burden and the promises of a generation that must not fail to fly on the wings of discipline that produces character. “Those of you who must grow to become the leaders our nation is yearning for must be prepared to stand for the truth regardless of who is for or against it or even when the consequences are dire. You must be prepared to afflict yourselves in order to bring comfort to our broken people. You must be reminded that true greatness only comes while serving others and not when serving yourself or godfathers. Above all, what will define you as a triumph or tragedy in this journey is like I have said, discipline because everything that has ever gone down is traceable to indiscipline” he said Speaking on the Not Too Young To Run Law, he noted that the Nigerian Youth has since the nation’s return to democratic rule in 1999 been kept on the wings and fringes of leadership. “By the position of this document, we refuse to see the Nigerian Youth as merely a representation of tomorrow’s leadership but a distinct social category of people who are educated, competent and prepared for the task of today’s leadership”. “The Not Too Young To Run Law is not so much about the exclusion of any particular class from the political space, rather it is designed to offer a platform for our youth population to build synergy with other segments of society for national development”. “As you have known by now, the law is not designed as a cutthroat competition between the young people and the ‘old’, but an opportunity to build a consensus, a sort of governance symphony where all energies are deployed for our common good” The importance of your election is situated in the fact that the Nigerian youth demographic at an estimated population of 78 million would be the fourth largest country in Africa and 19th in the world if it were a country. But what have your sheer numerical strength been put to. Dogara charged that no one should envy the newly elected officials as they were coming on board at a time when the  country is on its knees haven ravaged its national blessings until it is now desperate to find redemption. ”Nigeria is the third most dangerous country in the world to live in after Afghanistan and Syria, that life expectances in Nigeria is estimated by Open Government to be at 53.8 in 2017 which gives Nigeria a world life expect ranking of 214 out of 224 countries ranked. He added that one out of every three Nigerians go to bed hungry every night becoming a bye word among nations who now tell us to our faces that we are now the poverty capital of the world, further lamenting that the nation has no world class hospital and no world class institution of learning? “Consequently, medical tourism abroad is the accepted norm with dire consequences on our national economy. So many young people’s life time ambition nowadays is not to study in the Western world anymore but anywhere except, Nigeria. “No need to remind us that unemployment is now officially at nearly 30% if not more. Underemployment is more grave a problem. So many out there working their hearts out for take homes that cannot take them home much less put food on their tables. Let me stop here so as not to depress us any further”. He charged the newly elected officials to shun the arrogance of power and stay connected to the grassroots and those who had yielded their mandates to them, noting that the Nigerian voter is becoming increasingly aware of the power of the ballot, and they demonstrated it in some states where elections truly counted. In her remarks, British High Commissioner to Nigeria, HE Catriona Laing said the UK has been a proud supporter of the Not too young to run movement “Your growth as political representatives will determine how much progress is made in all areas of life in Nigeria. So you now have a responsibility to engage in the state and federal legislatures on issues which affect the people who voted for you” You will make the laws and policies which will affect education, health, the economy, security, women, PWDs – and remember, somebody championed the law which made it possible for you to run for office!  The responsibility is on your shoulder to ensure that integrity, fairness, inclusion and accountability become the hallmarks of your tenure. While maintaining that this was the beginning of the journey for the young parliamentarians, the High Commissioner said “This is the beginning of a journey.  International partners such as the UK can only support you, but the responsibility is yours to take Nigeria to the next level. “She further noted that Nigeria will not move forward if the space for women’s engagement isn’t widened”.