The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), has urged the federal ministry of Power, Works and Housing to hand over the uncompleted Tin-Can Island Trailer park to the authority for completion. This plea was made by the managing director of NPA, Hadiza Bala-Usman when she appeared as a guest on Logos Talk FM, 96.1FM in Lagos recently. This was even as truck drivers and owners have blamed lack of parking space for their decision to remain on the port access roads urging the federal government to allow them more time to find parking space. The NPA boss noted that the ministry has been constructing the park around Tin can Island Port access for the past 10 years. “The traffic situation will not reduce in Apapa unless there is a concerted effort in providing trailer parks. “I will also use this opportunity to call on the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to conclude the trailer park inside the Tincan Island Port, the ministry has been constructing the park around Tincan Island Port access for the past 10 years. “I have held discussions with the ministry over two years ago when I assumed duty and requested that the trailer park be handed over to the NPA so that we can conclude the shore protection and have it ready. “Fixing that trailer park along with what we have currently at Lilypond will go a long way in decongesting the traffic. The gridlock in Apapa has been lingering for so long, the NPA in the last three weeks withdraw the lease for the Lilypond Terminal and converted it into a Trailer Transit Park (TTP). “We have also called on the Lagos State Government to provide land for TTP for overriding public interest; we need trailer parks and holding bays to enable us to manage the traffic. We cannot have a situation where all the trailers do not have designated parking. We must have as state or local government a place for trucks to park,” she said. However, the president of the Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Remi Ogungbemi yesterday blamed lack of parking space for their decision to remain on the port access roads urging the federal government to allow them more time to find parking space.